The Project Gutenberg eBook of Little Brother
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

*** This is a COPYRIGHTED Project Gutenberg eBook. Details Below. ***
***     Please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.      ***


Title: Little Brother

Author: Cory Doctorow

Release date: September 30, 2009 [eBook #30142]
                Most recently updated: October 24, 2024

Language: English



*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LITTLE BROTHER ***

Little Brother

by Cory Doctorow


READ THIS FIRST

This book is distributed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 license. That means:

You are free:

    * to Share — to copy, distribute and transmit the work

    * to Remix — to adapt the work

Under the following conditions:

    *  Attribution. You must attribute the work in the manner specified
    by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that
    they endorse you or your use of the work).

    *  Noncommercial. You may not use this work for commercial
    purposes.

	* Share Alike. If you alter, transform, or build upon this work,
	you may distribute the resulting work only under the same or
	similar license to this one.

    * For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the
    license terms of this work. The best way to do this is with a link
    http://craphound.com/littlebrother

    * Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get my
    permission

More info here: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/

See the end of this file for the complete legalese.

&&&

INTRODUCTION

I wrote Little Brother in a white-hot fury between May 7, 2007 and July
2, 2007: exactly eight weeks from the day I thought it up to the day I
finished it (Alice, to whom this book is dedicated, had to put up with
me clacking out the final chapter at 5AM in our hotel in Rome, where we
were celebrating our anniversary). I'd always dreamed of having a book
just materialize, fully formed, and come pouring out of my fingertips,
no sweat and fuss -- but it wasn't nearly as much fun as I'd thought it
would be. There were days when I wrote 10,000 words, hunching over my
keyboard in airports, on subways, in taxis -- anywhere I could type.
The book was trying to get out of my head, no matter what, and I missed
so much sleep and so many meals that friends started to ask if I was
unwell.

When my dad was a young university student in the 1960s, he was one of
the few "counterculture" people who thought computers were a good
thing. For most young people, computers represented the de-humanization
of society. University students were reduced to numbers on a punchcard,
each bearing the legend "DO NOT BEND, SPINDLE, FOLD OR MUTILATE,"
prompting some of the students to wear pins that said, "I AM A STUDENT:
DO NOT BEND, SPINDLE, FOLD OR MUTILATE ME." Computers were seen as a
means to increase the ability of the authorities to regiment people and
bend them to their will.

When I was a 17, the world seemed like it was just going to get more
free. The Berlin Wall was about to come down. Computers -- which had
been geeky and weird a few years before -- were everywhere, and the
modem I'd used to connect to local bulletin board systems was now
connecting me to the entire world through the Internet and commercial
online services like GEnie. My lifelong fascination with activist
causes went into overdrive as I saw how the main difficulty in activism
-- organizing -- was getting easier by leaps and bounds (I still
remember the first time I switched from mailing out a newsletter with
hand-written addresses to using a database with mail-merge). In the
Soviet Union, communications tools were being used to bring information
-- and revolution -- to the farthest-flung corners of the largest
authoritarian state the Earth had ever seen.

But 17 years later, things are very different. The computers I love are
being co-opted, used to spy on us, control us, snitch on us. The
National Security Agency has illegally wiretapped the entire USA and
gotten away with it. Car rental companies and mass transit and traffic
authorities are watching where we go, sending us automated tickets,
finking us out to busybodies, cops and bad guys who gain illicit access
to their databases. The Transport Security Administration maintains a
"no-fly" list of people who'd never been convicted of any crime, but
who are nevertheless considered too dangerous to fly. The list's
contents are secret. The rule that makes it enforceable is secret. The
criteria for being added to the list are secret. It has four-year-olds
on it. And US senators. And decorated veterans -- actual war heroes.

The 17 year olds I know understand to a nicety just how dangerous a
computer can be. The authoritarian nightmare of the 1960s has come home
for them. The seductive little boxes on their desks and in their
pockets watch their every move, corral them in, systematically
depriving them of those new freedoms I had enjoyed and made such good
use of in my young adulthood.

What's more, kids were clearly being used as guinea-pigs for a new kind
of technological state that all of us were on our way to, a world where
taking a picture was either piracy (in a movie theater or museum or
even a Starbucks), or terrorism (in a public place), but where we could
be photographed, tracked and logged hundreds of times a day by every
tin-pot dictator, cop, bureaucrat and shop-keeper. A world where any
measure, including torture, could be justified just by waving your
hands and shouting "Terrorism! 9/11! Terrorism!" until all dissent fell
silent.

We don't have to go down that road.

If you love freedom, if you think the human condition is dignified by
privacy, by the right to be left alone, by the right to explore your
weird ideas provided you don't hurt others, then you have common cause
with the kids whose web-browsers and cell phones are being used to lock
them up and follow them around.

If you believe that the answer to bad speech is more speech -- not
censorship -- then you have a dog in the fight.

If you believe in a society of laws, a land where our rulers have to
tell us the rules, and have to follow them too, then you're part of the
same struggle that kids fight when they argue for the right to live
under the same Bill of Rights that adults have.

This book is meant to be part of the conversation about what an
information society means: does it mean total control, or unheard-of
liberty? It's not just a noun, it's a verb, it's something you do.

&&&

DO SOMETHING

This book is meant to be something you do, not just something you read.
The technology in this book is either real or nearly real. You can
build a lot of it. You can share it and remix it (see THE COPYRIGHT
THING, below). You can use the ideas to spark important discussions
with your friends and family. You can use those ideas to defeat
censorship and get onto the free Internet, even if your government,
employer or school doesn't want you to.

Making stuff: The folks at Instructables have put up some killer HOWTOs
for building the technology in this book. It's easy and incredibly fun.
There's nothing so rewarding in this world as making stuff, especially
stuff that makes you more free:
http://www.instructables.com/member/w1n5t0n/

Discussions: There's an educator's manual for this book that my
publisher, Tor, has put together that has tons of ideas for classroom,
reading group and home discussions of the ideas in it:
http://www.tor-forge.com/static/Little_Brother_Readers_Guide.pdf

Defeat censorship: The afterword for this book has lots of resources
for increasing your online freedom, blocking the snoops and evading the
censorware blocks. The more people who know about this stuff, the
better.

Your stories: I'm collecting stories of people who've used technology
to get the upper hand when confronted with abusive authority. I'm going
to be including the best of these in a special afterword to the UK
edition (see below) of the book, and I'll be putting them online as
well. Send me your stories at doctorow@craphound.com, with the subject
line "Abuses of Authority".

&&&

GREAT BRITAIN

I'm a Canadian, and I've lived in lots of places (including San
Francisco, the setting for Little Brother), and now I live in London,
England, with my wife Alice and our little daughter, Poesy. I've lived
here (off and on) for five years now, and though I love it to tiny
pieces, there's one thing that's always bugged me: my books aren't
available here. Some stores carried them as special items, imported
from the USA, but it wasn't published by a British publisher.

That's changed! HarperCollins UK has bought the British rights to this
book (along with my next young adult novel, FOR THE WIN), and they're
publishing it just a few months after the US edition, on November 17,
2008 (the day after I get back from my honeymoon!).


UPDATE: November 27, 2008: And it's on shelves now! The HarperCollins
edition's a knockout, too!

I'm so glad about this, I could bust, honestly. Not just because
they're finally selling my books in my adopted homeland, but because
*I'm raising a daughter here, dammit*, and the surveillance and control
mania in this country is starting to scare me bloodless. It seems like
the entire police and governance system in Britain has fallen in love
with DNA-swabbing, fingerprinting and video-recording everyone, on the
off chance that someday you might do something wrong. In early 2008,
the head of Scotland Yard seriously proposed taking DNA from
*five-year-olds* who display "offending traits" because they'll
probably grow up to be criminals. The next week, the London police put
up posters asking us all to turn in people who seem to be taking
pictures of the ubiquitous CCTV spy-cameras because anyone who pays too
much attention to the surveillance machine is probably a terrorist.

America isn't the only country that lost its mind this decade.
Britain's right there in the nuthouse with it, dribbling down its shirt
front and pointing its finger at the invisible bogeymen and screaming
until it gets its meds.

We need to be having this conversation all over the planet.

Want to get a copy in the UK? Sure thing!
http://craphound.com/littlebrother/buy/#uk

&&&

OTHER EDITIONS

My agent, Russell Galen (and his sub-agent Danny Baror) did an amazing
job of pre-selling rights to Little Brother in many languages and
formats. Here's the list as of today (May 4, 2008). I'll be updating it
as more editions are sold, so feel free to grab another copy of this
file (http://craphound.com/littlebrother/download)  if there's an
edition you're hoping to see, or see
http://craphound.com/littlebrother/buy/ for links to buy all the
currently shipping editions.

* Audiobook from Random House:
http://www.randomhouse.com/audio/littlebrotheraudiobook

A condition of my deal with Random House is that they're not allowed to
release this on services that use "DRM" (Digital Rights Management)
systems intended to control use and copying. That means that you won't
find this book on Audible or iTunes, because Audible refuses to sell
books without DRM (even if the author and publisher don't want DRM),
and iTunes only carries Audible audiobooks. However, you can buy the
MP3 file direct from RandomHouse or many other fine etailers, or
through this widget:
http://www.zipidee.com/zipidAudioPreview.aspx?aid=c5a8e946-fd2c-4b9e-
a748-f297bba17de8

* My foreign rights agent, Danny Baror, has presold a number of foreign
editions:

	* Greece: Pataki

	* Russia: AST Publishing

	* France: Universe Poche

	* Norway: Det Norske Samlaget

No publication dates yet for these, but I'll keep updating this file as
more information is available. You can also subscribe to my mailing
list for more info.

&&&

THE COPYRIGHT THING

The Creative Commons license at the top of this file probably tipped
you off to the fact that I've got some pretty unorthodox views about
copyright. Here's what I think of it, in a nutshell: a little goes a
long way, and more than that is too much.

I like the fact that copyright lets me sell rights to my publishers and
film studios and so on. It's nice that they can't just take my stuff
without permission and get rich on it without cutting me in for a piece
of the action. I'm in a pretty good position when it comes to
negotiating with these companies: I've got a great agent and a decade's
experience with copyright law and licensing (including a stint as a
delegate at WIPO, the UN agency that makes the world's copyright
treaties). What's more, there's just not that many of these
negotiations -- even if I sell fifty or a hundred different editions of
Little Brother (which would put it in top millionth of a percentile for
fiction), that's still only a hundred negotiations, which I could just
about manage.

I *hate* the fact that fans who want to do what readers have always
done are expected to play in the same system as all these hotshot
agents and lawyers. It's just *stupid* to say that an elementary school
classroom should have to talk to a lawyer at a giant global publisher
before they put on a play based on one of my books. It's ridiculous to
say that people who want to "loan" their electronic copy of my book to
a friend need to get a *license* to do so. Loaning books has been
around longer than any publisher on Earth, and it's a fine thing.

I recently saw Neil Gaiman give a talk at which someone asked him how
he felt about piracy of his books. He said, "Hands up in the audience
if you discovered your favorite writer for free -- because someone
loaned you a copy, or because someone gave it to you? Now, hands up if
you found your favorite writer by walking into a store and plunking
down cash." Overwhelmingly, the audience said that they'd discovered
their favorite writers for free, on a loan or as a gift. When it comes
to my favorite writers, there's no boundaries: I'll buy every book they
publish, just to own it (sometimes I buy two or three, to give away to
friends who *must* read those books). I pay to see them live. I buy
t-shirts with their book-covers on them. I'm a customer for life.

Neil went on to say that he was part of the tribe of readers, the tiny
minority of people in the world who read for pleasure, buying books
because they love them. One thing he knows about everyone who downloads
his books on the Internet without permission is that they're *readers*,
they're people who love books.

People who study the habits of music-buyers have discovered something
curious: the biggest pirates are also the biggest spenders. If you
pirate music all night long, chances are you're one of the few people
left who also goes to the record store (remember those?) during the
day. You probably go to concerts on the weekend, and you probably check
music out of the library too. If you're a member of the red-hot
music-fan tribe, you do lots of *everything* that has to do with music,
from singing in the shower to paying for black-market vinyl bootlegs of
rare Eastern European covers of your favorite death-metal band.

Same with books. I've worked in new bookstores, used bookstores and
libraries. I've hung out in pirate ebook ("bookwarez") places online.
I'm a stone used bookstore junkie, and I go to book fairs for fun. And
you know what? It's the same people at all those places: book fans who
do lots of everything that has to do with books. I buy weird, fugly
pirate editions of my favorite books in China because they're weird and
fugly and look great next to the eight or nine other editions that I
paid full-freight for of the same books. I check books out of the
library, google them when I need a quote, carry dozens around on my
phone and hundreds on my laptop, and have (at this writing) more than
10,000 of them in storage lockers in London, Los Angeles and Toronto.

If I could loan out my physical books without giving up possession of
them, I *would*. The fact that I can do so with digital files is not a
bug, it's a feature, and a damned fine one. It's embarrassing to see
all these writers and musicians and artists bemoaning the fact that art
just got this wicked new feature: the ability to be shared without
losing access to it in the first place. It's like watching restaurant
owners crying down their shirts about the new free lunch machine that's
feeding the world's starving people because it'll force them to
reconsider their business-models. Yes, that's gonna be tricky, but
let's not lose sight of the main attraction: free lunches!

Universal access to human knowledge is in our grasp, for the first time
in the history of the world. This is not a bad thing.

In case that's not enough for you, here's my pitch on why giving away
ebooks makes sense at this time and place:

Giving away ebooks gives me artistic, moral and commercial
satisfaction. The commercial question is the one that comes up most
often: how can you give away free ebooks and still make money?

For me -- for pretty much every writer -- the big problem isn't piracy,
it's obscurity (thanks to Tim O'Reilly for this great aphorism). Of all
the people who failed to buy this book today, the majority did so
because they never heard of it, not because someone gave them a free
copy. Mega-hit best-sellers in science fiction sell half a million
copies -- in a world where 175,000 attend the San Diego Comic Con
alone, you've got to figure that most of the people who "like science
fiction" (and related geeky stuff like comics, games, Linux, and so on)
just don't really buy books. I'm more interested in getting more of
that wider audience into the tent than making sure that everyone who's
in the tent bought a ticket to be there.

Ebooks are verbs, not nouns. You copy them, it's in their nature. And
many of those copies have a destination, a person they're intended for,
a hand-wrought transfer from one person to another, embodying a
personal recommendation between two people who trust each other enough
to share bits. That's the kind of thing that authors (should) dream of,
the proverbial sealing of the deal. By making my books available for
free pass-along, I make it easy for people who love them to help other
people love them.

What's more, I don't see ebooks as substitute for paper books for most
people. It's not that the screens aren't good enough, either: if you're
anything like me, you already spend every hour you can get in front of
the screen, reading text. But the more computer-literate you are, the
less likely you are to be reading long-form works on those screens --
that's because computer-literate people do more things with their
computers. We run IM and email and we use the browser in a million
diverse ways. We have games running in the background, and endless
opportunities to tinker with our music libraries. The more you do with
your computer, the more likely it is that you'll be interrupted after
five to seven minutes to do something else. That makes the computer
extremely poorly suited to reading long-form works off of, unless you
have the iron self-discipline of a monk.

The good news (for writers) is that this means that ebooks on computers
are more likely to be an enticement to buy the printed book (which is,
after all, cheap, easily had, and easy to use) than a substitute for
it. You can probably read just enough of the book off the screen to
realize you want to be reading it on paper.

So ebooks sell print books. Every writer I've heard of who's tried
giving away ebooks to promote paper books has come back to do it again.
That's the commercial case for doing free ebooks.

Now, onto the artistic case. It's the twenty-first century. Copying
stuff is never, ever going to get any harder than it is today (or if it
does, it'll be because civilization has collapsed, at which point we'll
have other problems). Hard drives aren't going to get bulkier, more
expensive, or less capacious. Networks won't get slower or harder to
access. If you're not making art with the intention of having it
copied, you're not really making art for the twenty-first century.
There's something charming about making work you don't want to be
copied, in the same way that it's nice to go to a Pioneer Village and
see the olde-timey blacksmith shoeing a horse at his traditional forge.
But it's hardly, you know, *contemporary*. I'm a science fiction
writer. It's my job to write about the future (on a good day) or at
least the present. Art that's not supposed to be copied is from the
past.

Finally, let's look at the moral case. Copying stuff is natural. It's
how we learn (copying our parents and the people around us). My first
story, written when I was six, was an excited re-telling of Star Wars,
which I'd just seen in the theater. Now that the Internet -- the
world's most efficient copying machine -- is pretty much everywhere,
our copying instinct is just going to play out more and more. There's
no way I can stop my readers, and if I tried, I'd be a hypocrite: when
I was 17, I was making mix-tapes, photocopying stories, and generally
copying in every way I could imagine. If the Internet had been around
then, I'd have been using it to copy as much as I possibly could.

There's no way to stop it, and the people who try end up doing more
harm than piracy ever did. The record industry's ridiculous holy war
against file-sharers (more than 20,000 music fans sued and counting!)
exemplifies the absurdity of trying to get the food-coloring out of the
swimming pool. If the choice is between allowing copying or being a
frothing bully lashing out at anything he can reach, I choose the
former.

&&&

DONATIONS AND A WORD TO TEACHERS AND LIBRARIANS

Every time I put a book online for free, I get emails from readers who
want to send me donations for the book. I appreciate their generous
spirit, but I'm not interested in cash donations, because my publishers
are really important to me. They contribute immeasurably to the book,
improving it, introducing it to audience I could never reach, helping
me do more with my work. I have no desire to cut them out of the loop.

But there has to be some good way to turn that generosity to good use,
and I think I've found it.

Here's the deal: there are lots of teachers and librarians who'd love
to get hard-copies of this book into their kids' hands, but don't have
the budget for it (teachers in the US spend around $1,200 out of pocket
each on classroom supplies that their budgets won't stretch to cover,
which is why I sponsor a classroom at Ivanhoe Elementary in my old
neighborhood in Los Angeles; you can adopt a class yourself here:
http://www.adoptaclassroom.org/).

There are generous people who want to send some cash my way to thank me
for the free ebooks.

I'm proposing that we put them together.

If you're a teacher or librarian and you want a free copy of Little
Brother, email freelittlebrother@gmail.com with your name and the name
and address of your school. It'll be posted to
http://craphound.com/littlebrother/category/donate/ by my fantastic
helper, Olga Nunes, so that potential donors can see it.

If you enjoyed the electronic edition of Little Brother and you want to
donate something to say thanks, go to
http://craphound.com/littlebrother/donate/ and find a teacher or
librarian you want to support. Then go to Amazon, BN.com, or your
favorite electronic bookseller and order a copy to the classroom, then
email a copy of the receipt (feel free to delete your address and other
personal info first!) to freelittlebrother@gmail.com so that Olga can
mark that copy as sent. If you don't want to be publicly acknowledged
for your generosity, let us know and we'll keep you anonymous,
otherwise we'll thank you on the donate page.

I have no idea if this will end up with hundreds, dozens or just a few
copies going out -- but I have high hopes!

&&&

DEDICATION

For Alice, who makes me whole

&&&

QUOTES

"A rousing tale of techno-geek rebellion, as necessary and dangerous as
file sharing, free speech, and bottled water on a plane."

Scott Westerfeld, author of UGLIES and EXTRAS



"I can talk about Little Brother in terms of its bravura political
speculation or its brilliant uses of technology -- each of which make
this book a must-read -- but, at the end of it all, I'm haunted by the
universality of Marcus's rite-of-passage and struggle, an experience
any teen today is going to grasp: the moment when you choose what your
life will mean and how to achieve it."

Steven C Gould, author of JUMPER and REFLEX



I'd recommend Little Brother over pretty much any book I've read this
year, and I'd want to get it into the hands of as many smart 13 year
olds, male and female, as I can.

Because I think it'll change lives. Because some kids, maybe just a
few, won't be the same after they've read it. Maybe they'll change
politically, maybe technologically. Maybe it'll just be the first book
they loved or that spoke to their inner geek. Maybe they'll want to
argue about it and disagree with it. Maybe they'll want to open their
computer and see what's in there. I don't know. It made me want to be
13 again right now and reading it for the first time, and then go out
and make the world better or stranger or odder. It's a wonderful,
important book, in a way that renders its flaws pretty much
meaningless.

Neil Gaiman, author of ANANSI BOYS



Little Brother is a scarily realistic adventure about how homeland
security technology could be abused to wrongfully imprison innocent
Americans. A teenage hacker-turned-hero pits himself against the
government to fight for his basic freedoms. This book is action-packed
with tales of courage, technology, and demonstrations of digital
disobedience as the technophile's civil protest."

Bunnie Huang, author of HACKING THE XBOX



Cory Doctorow is a fast and furious storyteller who gets all the
details of alternate reality gaming right, while offering a startling,
new vision of how these games might play out in the high-stakes context
of a terrorist attack. Little Brother is a brilliant novel with a bold
argument: hackers and gamers might just be our country's best hope for
the future.

Jane McGonical, Designer, I Love Bees




The right book at the right time from the right author -- and, not
entirely coincidentally, Cory Doctorow's best novel yet.

John Scalzi, author of OLD MAN'S WAR



It's about growing up in the near future where things have kept going
on the way they've been going, and it's about hacking as a habit of
mind, but mostly it's about growing up and changing and looking at the
world and asking what you can do about that. The teenage voice is
pitch-perfect. I couldn't put it down, and I loved it.

Jo Walton, author of FARTHING




A worthy younger sibling to Orwell's 1984, Cory Doctorow's LITTLE
BROTHER is lively, precocious, and most importantly, a little scary.

Brian K Vaughn, author of Y: THE LAST MAN



"Little Brother" sounds an optimistic warning. It extrapolates from
current events to remind us of the ever-growing threats to liberty. But
it also notes that liberty ultimately resides in our individual
attitudes and actions. In our increasingly authoritarian world, I
especially hope that teenagers and young adults will read it -- and
then persuade their peers, parents and teachers to follow suit.

Dan Gillmor, author of WE, THE MEDIA

&&&

ABOUT THE BOOKSTORE DEDICATIONS

Every chapter of this file has been dedicated to a different bookstore,
and in each case, it's a store that I love, a store that's helped me
discover books that opened my mind, a store that's helped my career
along. The stores didn't pay me anything for this -- I haven't even
told them about it -- but it seems like the right thing to do. After
all, I'm hoping that you'll read this ebook and decide to buy the paper
book, so it only makes sense to suggest a few places you can pick it
up!

&&&

Chapter 1

[[This chapter is dedicated to BakkaPhoenix Books in Toronto, Canada.
Bakka is the oldest science fiction bookstore in the world, and it made
me the mutant I am today. I wandered in for the first time around the
age of 10 and asked for some recommendations. Tanya Huff (yes, *the*
Tanya Huff, but she wasn't a famous writer back then!) took me back
into the used section and pressed a copy of H. Beam Piper's "Little
Fuzzy" into my hands, and changed my life forever. By the time I was
18, I was working at Bakka -- I took over from Tanya when she retired
to write full time -- and I learned life-long lessons about how and why
people buy books. I think every writer should work at a bookstore (and
plenty of writers have worked at Bakka over the years! For the 30th
anniversary of the store, they put together an anthology of stories by
Bakka writers that included work by Michelle Sagara (AKA Michelle
West), Tanya Huff, Nalo Hopkinson, Tara Tallan --and me!)]]

[[BakkaPhoenix Books: http://www.bakkaphoenixbooks.com/ 697 Queen
Street West, Toronto ON Canada M6J1E6, +1 416 963 9993]]

I'm a senior at Cesar Chavez high in San Francisco's sunny Mission
district, and that makes me one of the most surveilled people in the
world. My name is Marcus Yallow, but back when this story starts, I was
going by w1n5t0n. Pronounced "Winston."

*Not* pronounced "Double-you-one-enn-five-tee-zero-enn" -- unless
you're a clueless disciplinary officer who's far enough behind the
curve that you still call the Internet "the information superhighway."

I know just such a clueless person, and his name is Fred Benson, one of
three vice-principals at Cesar Chavez. He's a sucking chest wound of a
human being. But if you're going to have a jailer, better a clueless
one than one who's really on the ball.

"Marcus Yallow," he said over the PA one Friday morning. The PA isn't
very good to begin with, and when you combine that with Benson's
habitual mumble, you get something that sounds more like someone
struggling to digest a bad burrito than a school announcement. But
human beings are good at picking their names out of audio confusion --
it's a survival trait.

I grabbed my bag and folded my laptop three-quarters shut -- I didn't
want to blow my downloads -- and got ready for the inevitable.

"Report to the administration office immediately."

My social studies teacher, Ms Galvez, rolled her eyes at me and I
rolled my eyes back at her. The Man was always coming down on me, just
because I go through school firewalls like wet kleenex, spoof the
gait-recognition software, and nuke the snitch chips they track us
with. Galvez is a good type, anyway, never holds that against me
(especially when I'm helping get with her webmail so she can talk to
her brother who's stationed in Iraq).

My boy Darryl gave me a smack on the ass as I walked past. I've known
Darryl since we were still in diapers and escaping from play-school,
and I've been getting him into and out of trouble the whole time. I
raised my arms over my head like a prizefighter and made my exit from
Social Studies and began the perp-walk to the office.

I was halfway there when my phone went. That was another no-no --
phones are muy prohibido at Chavez High -- but why should that stop me?
I ducked into the toilet and shut myself in the middle stall (the
furthest stall is always grossest because so many people head straight
for it, hoping to escape the smell and the squick -- the smart money
and good hygiene is down the middle). I checked the phone -- my home PC
had sent it an email to tell it that there was something new up on
Harajuku Fun Madness, which happens to be the best game ever invented.

I grinned. Spending Fridays at school was teh suck anyway, and I was
glad of the excuse to make my escape.

I ambled the rest of the way to Benson's office and tossed him a wave
as I sailed through the door.

"If it isn't Double-you-one-enn-five-tee-zero-enn," he said. Fredrick
Benson -- Social Security number 545-03-2343, date of birth August 15
1962, mother's maiden name Di Bona, hometown Petaluma -- is a lot
taller than me. I'm a runty 5'8", while he stands 6'7", and his college
basketball days are far enough behind him that his chest muscles have
turned into saggy man-boobs that were painfully obvious through his
freebie dot-com polo-shirts. He always looks like he's about to
slam-dunk your ass, and he's really into raising his voice for dramatic
effect. Both these start to lose their efficacy with repeated
application.

"Sorry, nope," I said. "I never heard of this R2D2 character of yours."

"W1n5t0n," he said, spelling it out again. He gave me a hairy eyeball
and waited for me to wilt. Of course it was my handle, and had been for
years. It was the identity I used when I was posting on message-boards
where I was making my contributions to the field of applied security
research. You know, like sneaking out of school and disabling the
minder-tracer on my phone. But he didn't know that this was my handle.
Only a small number of people did, and I trusted them all to the end of
the earth.

"Um, not ringing any bells," I said. I'd done some pretty cool stuff
around school using that handle -- I was very proud of my work on
snitch-tag killers -- and if he could link the two identities, I'd be
in trouble. No one at school ever called me w1n5t0n or even Winston.
Not even my pals. It was Marcus or nothing.

Benson settled down behind his desk and tapped his class-ring nervously
on his blotter. He did this whenever things started to go bad for him.
Poker players call stuff like this a "tell" -- something that let you
know what was going on in the other guy's head. I knew Benson's tells
backwards and forwards.

"Marcus, I hope you realize how serious this is."

"I will just as soon as you explain what this is, sir." I always say
"sir" to authority figures when I'm messing with them. It's my own
tell.

He shook his head at me and looked down, another tell. Any second now,
he was going to start shouting at me. "Listen, kiddo! It's time you
came to grips with the fact that we know about what you've been doing,
and that we're not going to be lenient about it. You're going to be
lucky if you're not expelled before this meeting is through. Do you
want to graduate?"

"Mr Benson, you still haven't explained what the problem is --"

He slammed his hand down on the desk and then pointed his finger at me.
"The *problem*, Mr Yallow, is that you've been engaged in criminal
conspiracy to subvert this school's security system, and you have
supplied security countermeasures to your fellow students. You know
that we expelled Graciella Uriarte last week for using one of your
devices." Uriarte had gotten a bad rap. She'd bought a radio-jammer
from a head-shop near the 16th Street BART station and it had set off
the countermeasures in the school hallway. Not my doing, but I felt for
her.

"And you think I'm involved in that?"

"We have reliable intelligence indicating that you are w1n5t0n" --
again, he spelled it out, and I began to wonder if he hadn't figured
out that the 1 was an I and the 5 was an S. "We know that this w1n5t0n
character is responsible for the theft of last year's standardized
tests." That actually hadn't been me, but it was a sweet hack, and it
was kind of flattering to hear it attributed to me. "And therefore
liable for several years in prison unless you cooperate with me."

"You have 'reliable intelligence'? I'd like to see it."

He glowered at me. "Your attitude isn't going to help you."

"If there's evidence, sir, I think you should call the police and turn
it over to them. It sounds like this is a very serious matter, and I
wouldn't want to stand in the way of a proper investigation by the duly
constituted authorities."

"You want me to call the police."

"And my parents, I think. That would be for the best."

We stared at each other across the desk. He'd clearly expected me to
fold the second he dropped the bomb on me. I don't fold. I have a trick
for staring down people like Benson. I look slightly to the left of
their heads, and think about the lyrics to old Irish folk songs, the
kinds with three hundred verses. It makes me look perfectly composed
and unworried.

*And the wing was on the bird and the bird was on the egg and the egg
was in the nest and the nest was on the leaf and the leaf was on the
twig and the twig was on the branch and the branch was on the limb and
the limb was in the tree and the tree was in the bog -- the bog down in
the valley-oh! High-ho the rattlin' bog, the bog down in the valley-oh
--*

"You can return to class now," he said. "I'll call on you once the
police are ready to speak to you."

"Are you going to call them now?"

"The procedure for calling in the police is complicated. I'd hoped that
we could settle this fairly and quickly, but since you insist --"

"I can wait while you call them is all," I said. "I don't mind."

He tapped his ring again and I braced for the blast.

"*Go!*" he yelled. "Get the hell out of my office, you miserable little
--"

I got out, keeping my expression neutral. He wasn't going to call the
cops. If he'd had enough evidence to go to the police with, he would
have called them in the first place. He hated my guts. I figured he'd
heard some unverified gossip and hoped to spook me into confirming it.

I moved down the corridor lightly and sprightly, keeping my gait even
and measured for the gait-recognition cameras. These had been installed
only a year before, and I loved them for their sheer idiocy.
Beforehand, we'd had face-recognition cameras covering nearly every
public space in school, but a court ruled that was unconstitutional. So
Benson and a lot of other paranoid school administrators had spent our
textbook dollars on these idiot cameras that were supposed to be able
to tell one person's walk from another. Yeah, right.

I got back to class and sat down again, Ms Galvez warmly welcoming me
back. I unpacked the school's standard-issue machine and got back into
classroom mode. The SchoolBooks were the snitchiest technology of them
all, logging every keystroke, watching all the network traffic for
suspicious keywords, counting every click, keeping track of every
fleeting thought you put out over the net. We'd gotten them in my
junior year, and it only took a couple months for the shininess to wear
off. Once people figured out that these "free" laptops worked for the
man -- and showed a never-ending parade of obnoxious ads to boot --
they suddenly started to feel very heavy and burdensome.

Cracking my SchoolBook had been easy. The crack was online within a
month of the machine showing up, and there was nothing to it -- just
download a DVD image, burn it, stick it in the SchoolBook, and boot it
while holding down a bunch of different keys at the same time. The DVD
did the rest, installing a whole bunch of hidden programs on the
machine, programs that would stay hidden even when the Board of Ed did
its daily remote integrity checks of the machines. Every now and again
I had to get an update for the software to get around the Board's
latest tests, but it was a small price to pay to get a little control
over the box.

I fired up IMParanoid, the secret instant messenger that I used when I
wanted to have an off-the-record discussion right in the middle of
class. Darryl was already logged in.

> The game's afoot! Something big is going down with Harajuku Fun
> Madness, dude. You in?

> No. Freaking. Way. If I get caught ditching a third time, I'm
> expelled. Man, you know that. We'll go after school.

> You've got lunch and then study-hall, right? That's two hours. Plenty
> of time to run down this clue and get back before anyone misses us.
> I'll get the whole team out.

Harajuku Fun Madness is the best game ever made. I know I already said
that, but it bears repeating. It's an ARG, an Alternate Reality Game,
and the story goes that a gang of Japanese fashion-teens discovered a
miraculous healing gem at the temple in Harajuku, which is basically
where cool Japanese teenagers invented every major subculture for the
past ten years. They're being hunted by evil monks, the Yakuza (AKA the
Japanese mafia), aliens, tax-inspectors, parents, and a rogue
artificial intelligence. They slip the players coded messages that we
have to decode and use to track down clues that lead to more coded
messages and more clues.

Imagine the best afternoon you've ever spent prowling the streets of a
city, checking out all the weird people, funny hand-bills,
street-maniacs, and funky shops. Now add a scavenger hunt to that, one
that requires you to research crazy old films and songs and teen
culture from around the world and across time and space. And it's a
competition, with the winning team of four taking a grand prize of ten
days in Tokyo, chilling on Harajuku bridge, geeking out in Akihabara,
and taking home all the Astro Boy merchandise you can eat. Except that
he's called "Atom Boy" in Japan.

That's Harajuku Fun Madness, and once you've solved a puzzle or two,
you'll never look back.

> No man, just no. NO. Don't even ask.

> I need you D. You're the best I've got. I swear I'll get us in and
> out without anyone knowing it. You know I can do that, right?

> I know you can do it

> So you're in?

> Hell no

> Come on, Darryl. You're not going to your deathbed wishing you'd
> spent more study periods sitting in school

> I'm not going to go to my deathbed wishing I'd spent more time
> playing ARGs either

> Yeah but don't you think you might go to your death-bed wishing you'd
> spent more time with Vanessa Pak?

Van was part of my team. She went to a private girl's school in the
East Bay, but I knew she'd ditch to come out and run the mission with
me. Darryl has had a crush on her literally for years -- even before
puberty endowed her with many lavish gifts. Darryl had fallen in love
with her mind. Sad, really.

> You suck

> You're coming?

He looked at me and shook his head. Then he nodded. I winked at him and
set to work getting in touch with the rest of my team.



I wasn't always into ARGing. I have a dark secret: I used to be a
LARPer. LARPing is Live Action Role Playing, and it's just about what
it sounds like: running around in costume, talking in a funny accent,
pretending to be a super-spy or a vampire or a medieval knight. It's
like Capture the Flag in monster-drag, with a bit of Drama Club thrown
in, and the best games were the ones we played in Scout Camps out of
town in Sonoma or down on the Peninsula. Those three-day epics could
get pretty hairy, with all-day hikes, epic battles with foam-and-bamboo
swords, casting spells by throwing beanbags and shouting "Fireball!"
and so on. Good fun, if a little goofy. Not nearly as geeky as talking
about what your elf planned on doing as you sat around a table loaded
with Diet Coke cans and painted miniatures, and more physically active
than going into a mouse-coma in front of a massively multiplayer game
at home.

The thing that got me into trouble were the mini-games in the hotels.
Whenever a science fiction convention came to town, some LARPer would
convince them to let us run a couple of six-hour mini-games at the con,
piggybacking on their rental of the space. Having a bunch of
enthusiastic kids running around in costume lent color to the event,
and we got to have a ball among people even more socially deviant than
us.

The problem with hotels is that they have a lot of non-gamers in them,
too -- and not just sci-fi people. Normal people. From states that
begin and end with vowels. On holidays.

And sometimes those people misunderstand the nature of a game.

Let's just leave it at that, OK?



Class ended in ten minutes, and that didn't leave me with much time to
prepare. The first order of business were those pesky gait-recognition
cameras. Like I said, they'd started out as face-recognition cameras,
but those had been ruled unconstitutional. As far as I know, no court
has yet determined whether these gait-cams are any more legal, but
until they do, we're stuck with them.

"Gait" is a fancy word for the way you walk. People are pretty good at
spotting gaits -- next time you're on a camping trip, check out the
bobbing of the flashlight as a distant friend approaches you. Chances
are you can identify him just from the movement of the light, the
characteristic way it bobs up and down that tells our monkey brains
that this is a person approaching us.

Gait recognition software takes pictures of your motion, tries to
isolate you in the pics as a silhouette, and then tries to match the
silhouette to a database to see if it knows who you are. It's a
biometric identifier, like fingerprints or retina-scans, but it's got a
lot more "collisions" than either of those. A biometric "collision" is
when a measurement matches more than one person. Only you have your
fingerprint, but you share your gait with plenty other people.

Not exactly, of course. Your personal, inch-by-inch walk is yours and
yours alone. The problem is your inch-by-inch walk changes based on how
tired you are, what the floor is made of, whether you pulled your ankle
playing basketball, and whether you've changed your shoes lately. So
the system kind of fuzzes-out your profile, looking for people who walk
kind of like you.

There are a lot of people who walk kind of like you. What's more, it's
easy not to walk kind of like you -- just take one shoe off. Of course,
you'll always walk like you-with-one-shoe-off in that case, so the
cameras will eventually figure out that it's still you. Which is why I
prefer to inject a little randomness into my attacks on
gait-recognition: I put a handful of gravel into each shoe. Cheap and
effective, and no two steps are the same. Plus you get a great
reflexology foot massage in the process (I kid. Reflexology is about as
scientifically useful as gait-recognition).

The cameras used to set off an alert every time someone they didn't
recognize stepped onto campus.

This did *not* work.

The alarm went off every ten minutes. When the mailman came by. When a
parent dropped in. When the grounds-people went to work fixing up the
basketball court. When a student showed up wearing new shoes.

So now it just tries to keep track of who's where and when. If someone
leaves by the school-gates during classes, their gait is checked to see
if it kinda-sorta matches any student gait and if it does,
whoop-whoop-whoop, ring the alarm!

Chavez High is ringed with gravel walkways. I like to keep a couple
handsful of rocks in my shoulder-bag, just in case. I silently passed
Darryl ten or fifteen pointy little bastards and we both loaded our
shoes.

Class was about to finish up -- and I realized that I still hadn't
checked the Harajuku Fun Madness site to see where the next clue was!
I'd been a little hyper-focused on the escape, and hadn't bothered to
figure out where we were escaping *to*.

I turned to my SchoolBook and hit the keyboard. The web-browser we used
was supplied with the machine. It was a locked-down spyware version of
Internet Explorer, Microsoft's crashware turd that no one under the age
of 40 used voluntarily.

I had a copy of Firefox on the USB drive built into my watch, but that
wasn't enough -- the SchoolBook ran Windows Vista4Schools, an antique
operating system designed to give school administrators the illusion
that they controlled the programs their students could run.

But Vista4Schools is its own worst enemy. There are a lot of programs
that Vista4Schools doesn't want you to be able to shut down --
keyloggers, censorware -- and these programs run in a special mode that
makes them invisible to the system. You can't quit them because you
can't even see they're there.

Any program whose name starts with $SYS$ is invisible to the operating
system. it doesn't show up on listings of the hard drive, nor in the
process monitor. So my copy of Firefox was called $SYS$Firefox -- and
as I launched it, it became invisible to Windows, and so invisible to
the network's snoopware.

Now I had an indie browser running, I needed an indie network
connection. The school's network logged every click in and out of the
system, which was bad news if you were planning on surfing over to the
Harajuku Fun Madness site for some extra-curricular fun.

The answer is something ingenious called TOR -- The Onion Router. An
onion router is an Internet site that takes requests for web-pages and
passes them onto other onion routers, and on to other onion routers,
until one of them finally decides to fetch the page and pass it back
through the layers of the onion until it reaches you. The traffic to
the onion-routers is encrypted, which means that the school can't see
what you're asking for, and the layers of the onion don't know who
they're working for. There are millions of  nodes -- the program was
set up by the US Office of Naval Research to help their people get
around the censorware in countries like Syria and China, which means
that it's perfectly designed for operating in the confines of an
average American high school.

TOR works because the school has a finite blacklist of naughty
addresses we aren't allowed to visit, and the addresses of the  nodes
change all the time -- no way could the school keep track of them all.
Firefox and TOR together made me into the invisible man, impervious to
Board of Ed snooping, free to check out the Harajuku FM site and see
what was up.

There it was, a new clue. Like all Harajuku Fun Madness clues, it had a
physical, online and mental component. The online component was a
puzzle you had to solve, one that required you to research the answers
to a bunch of obscure questions. This batch included a bunch of
questions on the plots in dojinshi -- those are comic books drawn by
fans of manga, Japanese comics. They can be as big as the official
comics that inspire them, but they're a lot weirder, with crossover
story-lines and sometimes really silly songs and action. Lots of love
stories, of course. Everyone loves to see their favorite toons hook up.

I'd have to solve those riddles later, when I got home. They were
easiest to solve with the whole team, downloading tons of dojinshi
files and scouring them for answers to the puzzles.

I'd just finished scrap-booking all the clues when the bell rang and we
began our escape. I surreptitiously slid the gravel down the side of my
short boots -- ankle-high Blundstones from Australia, great for running
and climbing, and the easy slip-on/slip-off laceless design makes them
convenient at the never-ending metal-detectors that are everywhere now.

We also had to evade physical surveillance, of course, but that gets
easier every time they add a new layer of physical snoopery -- all the
bells and whistles lull our beloved faculty into a totally false sense
of security. We surfed the crowd down the hallways, heading for my
favorite side-exit. We were halfway along when Darryl hissed, "Crap! I
forgot, I've got a library book in my bag."

"You're kidding me," I said, and hauled him into the next bathroom we
passed. Library books are bad news. Every one of them has an arphid --
Radio Frequency ID tag -- glued into its binding, which makes it
possible for the librarians to check out the books by waving them over
a reader, and lets a library shelf tell you if any of the books on it
are out of place.

But it also lets the school track where you are at all times. It was
another of those legal loopholes: the courts wouldn't let the schools
track *us* with arphids, but they could track *library books*, and use
the school records to tell them who was likely to be carrying which
library book.

I had a little Faraday pouch in my bag -- these are little wallets
lined with a mesh of copper wires that effectively block radio energy,
silencing arphids. But the pouches were made for neutralizing ID cards
and toll-booth transponders, not books like --

"Introduction to Physics?" I groaned. The book was the size of a
dictionary.

&&&

Chapter 2

[[This chapter is dedicated to Amazon.com, the largest Internet
bookseller in the world. Amazon is *amazing* -- a "store" where you can
get practically any book ever published (along with practically
everything else, from laptops to cheese-graters), where they've
elevated recommendations to a high art, where they allow customers to
directly communicate with each other, where they are constantly
inventing new and better ways of connecting books with readers. Amazon
has always treated me like gold -- the founder, Jeff Bezos, even posted
a reader-review for my first novel! -- and I shop there like crazy
(looking at my spreadsheets, it appears that I buy something from
Amazon approximately every *six days*). Amazon's in the process of
reinventing what it means to be a bookstore in the twenty-first century
and I can't think of a better group of people to be facing down that
thorny set of problems.]]

[[Amazon:
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0765319853/downandoutint-20]]

"I'm thinking of majoring in physics when I go to Berkeley," Darryl
said. His dad taught at the University of California at Berkeley, which
meant he'd get free tuition when he went. And there'd never been any
question in Darryl's household about whether he'd go.

"Fine, but couldn't you research it online?"

"My dad said I should read it. Besides, I didn't plan on committing any
crimes today."

"Skipping school isn't a crime. It's an infraction. They're totally
different."

"What are we going to do, Marcus?"

"Well, I can't hide it, so I'm going to have to nuke it." Killing
arphids is a dark art. No merchant wants malicious customers going for
a walk around the shop-floor and leaving behind a bunch of lobotomized
merchandise that is missing its invisible bar-code, so the
manufacturers have refused to implement a "kill signal" that you can
radio to an arphid to get it to switch off. You can reprogram arphids
with the right box, but I hate doing that to library books. It's not
exactly tearing pages out of a book, but it's still bad, since a book
with a reprogrammed arphid can't be shelved and can't be found. It just
becomes a needle in a haystack.

That left me with only one option: nuking the thing. Literally. 30
seconds in a microwave will do in pretty much every arphid on the
market. And because the arphid wouldn't answer at all when D checked it
back in at the library, they'd just print a fresh one for it and recode
it with the book's catalog info, and it would end up clean and neat
back on its shelf.

All we needed was a microwave.

"Give it another two minutes and the teacher's lounge will be empty," I
said.

Darryl grabbed his book at headed for the door. "Forget it, no way. I'm
going to class."

I snagged his elbow and dragged him back. "Come on, D, easy now. It'll
be fine."

"The *teacher's lounge*? Maybe you weren't listening, Marcus. If I get
busted *just once more*, I am *expelled.* You hear that? *Expelled.*"

"You won't get caught," I said. The one place a teacher wouldn't be
after this period was the lounge. "We'll go in the back way." The
lounge had a little kitchenette off to one side, with its own entrance
for teachers who just wanted to pop in and get a cup of joe. The
microwave -- which always reeked of popcorn and spilled soup -- was
right in there, on top of the miniature fridge.

Darryl groaned. I thought fast. "Look, the bell's *already rung*. if
you go to study hall now, you'll get a late-slip. Better not to show at
all at this point. I can infiltrate and exfiltrate any room on this
campus, D. You've seen me do it. I'll keep you safe, bro."

He groaned again. That was one of Darryl's tells: once he starts
groaning, he's ready to give in.

"Let's roll," I said, and we took off.

It was flawless. We skirted the classrooms, took the back stairs into
the basement, and came up the front stairs right in front of the
teachers' lounge. Not a sound came from the door, and I quietly turned
the knob and dragged Darryl in before silently closing the door.

The book just barely fit in the microwave, which was looking even less
sanitary than it had the last time I'd popped in here to use it. I
conscientiously wrapped it in paper towels before I set it down. "Man,
teachers are *pigs*," I hissed. Darryl, white faced and tense, said
nothing.

The arphid died in a shower of sparks, which was really quite lovely
(though not nearly as pretty as the effect you get when you nuke a
frozen grape, which has to be seen to be believed).

Now, to exfiltrate the campus in perfect anonymity and make our escape.

Darryl opened the door and began to move out, me on his heels. A second
later, he was standing on my toes, elbows jammed into my chest, as he
tried to back-pedal into the closet-sized kitchen we'd just left.

"Get back," he whispered urgently. "Quick -- it's Charles!"

Charles Walker and I don't get along. We're in the same grade, and
we've known each other as long as I've known Darryl, but that's where
the resemblance ends. Charles has always been big for his age, and now
that he's playing football and on the juice, he's even bigger. He's got
anger management problems -- I lost a milk-tooth to him in the third
grade, and he's managed to keep from getting in trouble over them by
becoming the most active snitch in school.

It's a bad combination, a bully who also snitches, taking great
pleasure in going to the teachers with whatever infractions he's found.
Benson *loved* Charles. Charles liked to let on that he had some kind
of unspecified bladder problem, which gave him a ready-made excuse to
prowl the hallways at Chavez, looking for people to fink on.

The last time Charles had caught some dirt on me, it had ended with me
giving up LARPing. I had no intention of being caught by him again.

"What's he doing?"

"He's coming this way is what he's doing," Darryl said. He was shaking.

"OK," I said. "OK, time for emergency countermeasures." I got my phone
out. I'd planned this well in advance. Charles would never get me
again. I emailed my server at home, and it got into motion.

A few seconds later, Charles's phone spazzed out spectacularly. I'd had
tens of thousands of simultaneous random calls and text messages sent
to it, causing every chirp and ring it had to go off and keep on going
off. The attack was accomplished by means of a botnet, and for that I
felt bad, but it was in the service of a good cause.

Botnets are where infected computers spend their afterlives. When you
get a worm or a virus, your computer sends a message to a chat channel
on IRC -- the Internet Relay Chat. That message tells the botmaster --
the guy who deployed the worm -- that the computers are there ready to
do his bidding. Botnets are supremely powerful, since they can comprise
thousands, even hundreds of thousands of computers, scattered all over
the Internet, connected to juicy high-speed connections and running on
fast home PCs. Those PCs normally function on behalf of their owners,
but when the botmaster calls them, they rise like zombies to do his
bidding.

There are so many infected PCs on the Internet that the price of hiring
an hour or two on a botnet has crashed. Mostly these things work for
spammers as cheap, distributed spambots, filling your mailbox with
come-ons for boner-pills or with new viruses that can infect you and
recruit your machine to join the botnet.

I'd just rented 10 seconds' time on three thousand PCs and had each of
them send a text message or voice-over-IP call to Charles's phone,
whose number I'd extracted from a sticky note on Benson's desk during
one fateful office-visit.

Needless to say, Charles's phone was not equipped to handle this. First
the SMSes filled the memory on his phone, causing it to start choking
on the routine operations it needed to do things like manage the ringer
and log all those incoming calls' bogus return numbers (did you know
that it's *really easy* to fake the return number on a caller ID? There
are about fifty ways of doing it -- just google "spoof caller id").

Charles stared at it dumbfounded, and jabbed at it furiously, his thick
eyebrows knotting and wiggling as he struggled with the demons that had
possessed his most personal of devices. The plan was working so far,
but he wasn't doing what he was supposed to be doing next -- he was
supposed to go find some place to sit down and try to figure out how to
get his phone back. Darryl shook me by the shoulder, and I pulled my
eye away from the crack in the door.

"What's he doing?" Darryl whispered.

"I totaled his phone, but he's just staring at it now instead of moving
on." It wasn't going to be easy to reboot that thing. Once the memory
was totally filled, it would have a hard time loading the code it
needed to delete the bogus messages -- and there was no bulk-erase for
texts on his phone, so he'd have to manually delete all of the
thousands of messages.

Darryl shoved me back and stuck his eye up to the door. A moment later,
his shoulders started to shake. I got scared, thinking he was
panicking, but when he pulled back, I saw that he was laughing so hard
that tears were streaming down his cheeks.

"Galvez just totally busted him for being in the halls during class
*and* for having his phone out -- you should have seen her tear into
him. She was really enjoying it."

We shook hands solemnly and snuck back out of the corridor, down the
stairs, around the back, out the door, past the fence and out into the
glorious sunlight of afternoon in the Mission. Valencia Street had
never looked so good. I checked my watch and yelped.

"Let's move! The rest of the gang is meeting us at the cable-cars in
twenty minutes!"



Van spotted us first. She was blending in with a group of Korean
tourists, which is one of her favorite ways of camouflaging herself
when she's ditching school. Ever since the truancy moblog went live,
our world is full of nosy shopkeepers and pecksniffs who take it upon
themselves to snap our piccies and put them on the net where they can
be perused by school administrators.

She came out of the crowd and bounded toward us. Darryl has had a thing
for Van since forever, and she's sweet enough to pretend she doesn't
know it. She gave me a hug and then moved onto Darryl, giving him a
quick sisterly kiss on the cheek that made him go red to the tops of
his ears.

The two of them made a funny pair: Darryl is a little on the heavy
side, though he wears it well, and he's got a kind of pink complexion
that goes red in the cheeks whenever he runs or gets excited. He's been
able to grow a beard since we were 14, but thankfully he started
shaving after a brief period known to our gang as "the Lincoln years."
And he's tall. Very, very tall. Like basketball player tall.

Meanwhile, Van is half a head shorter than me, and skinny, with
straight black hair that she wears in crazy, elaborate braids that she
researches on the net. She's got pretty coppery skin and dark eyes, and
she loves big glass rings the size of radishes, which click and clack
together when she dances.

"Where's Jolu?" she said.

"How are you, Van?" Darryl asked in a choked voice. He always ran a
step behind the conversation when it came to Van.

"I'm great, D. How's your every little thing?" Oh, she was a bad, bad
person. Darryl nearly fainted.

Jolu saved him from social disgrace by showing up just then, in an
oversize leather baseball jacket, sharp sneakers, and a meshback cap
advertising our favorite Mexican masked wrestler, El Santo Junior. Jolu
is Jose Luis Torrez, the completing member of our foursome. He went to
a super-strict Catholic school in the Outer Richmond, so it wasn't easy
for him to get out. But he always did: no one exfiltrated like our
Jolu. He liked his jacket because it hung down low -- which was pretty
stylish in parts of the city -- and covered up all his Catholic school
crap, which was like a bulls-eye for nosy jerks with the truancy moblog
bookmarked on their phones.

"Who's ready to go?" I asked, once we'd all said hello. I pulled out my
phone and showed them the map I'd downloaded to it on the BART. "Near
as I can work out, we wanna go up to the Nikko again, then one block
past it to O'Farrell, then left up toward Van Ness. Somewhere in there
we should find the wireless signal."

Van made a face. "That's a nasty part of the Tenderloin." I couldn't
argue with her. That part of San Francisco is one of the weird bits --
you go in through the Hilton's front entrance and it's all touristy
stuff like the cable-car turnaround and family restaurants. Go through
to the other side and you're in the 'Loin, where every tracked out
transvestite hooker, hard-case pimp, hissing drug dealer and cracked up
homeless person in town was concentrated. What they bought and sold,
none of us were old enough to be a part of (though there were plenty of
hookers our age plying their trade in the 'Loin.)

"Look on the bright side," I said. "The only time you want to go up
around there is broad daylight. None of the other players are going to
go near it until tomorrow at the earliest. This is what we in the ARG
business call a *monster head start.*"

Jolu grinned at me. "You make it sound like a good thing," he said.

"Beats eating uni," I said.

"We going to talk or we going to win?" Van said. After me, she was
hands-down the most hardcore player in our group. She took winning
very, very seriously.

We struck out, four good friends, on our way to decode a clue, win the
game -- and lose everything we cared about, forever.



The physical component of today's clue was a set of GPS coordinates --
there were coordinates for all the major cities where Harajuku Fun
Madness was played -- where we'd find a WiFi access-point's signal.
That signal was being deliberately jammed by another, nearby WiFi point
that was hidden so that it couldn't be spotted by conventional
wifinders, little key-fobs that told you when you were within range of
someone's open access-point, which you could use for free.

We'd have to track down the location of the "hidden" access point by
measuring the strength of the "visible" one, finding the spot where it
was most mysteriously weakest. There we'd find another clue -- last
time it had been in the special of the day at Anzu, the swanky sushi
restaurant in the Nikko hotel in the Tenderloin. The Nikko was owned by
Japan Airlines, one of Harajuku Fun Madness's sponsors, and the staff
had all made a big fuss over us when we finally tracked down the clue.
They'd given us bowls of miso soup and made us try uni, which is sushi
made from sea urchin, with the texture of very runny cheese and a smell
like very runny dog-droppings. But it tasted *really* good. Or so
Darryl told me. I wasn't going to eat that stuff.

I picked up the WiFi signal with my phone's wifinder about three blocks
up O'Farrell, just before Hyde Street, in front of a dodgy "Asian
Massage Parlor" with a red blinking CLOSED sign in the window. The
network's name was HarajukuFM, so we knew we had the right spot.

"If it's in there, I'm not going," Darryl said.

"You all got your wifinders?" I said.

Darryl and Van had phones with built-in wifinders, while Jolu, being
too cool to carry a phone bigger than his pinky finger, had a separate
little directional fob.

"OK, fan out and see what we see. You're looking for a sharp drop off
in the signal that gets worse the more you move along it."

I took a step backward and ended up standing on someone's toes. A
female voice said "oof" and I spun around, worried that some crack-ho
was going to stab me for breaking her heels.

Instead, I found myself face to face with another kid my age. She had a
shock of bright pink hair and a sharp, rodent-like face, with big
sunglasses that were practically air-force goggles. She was dressed in
striped tights beneath a black granny dress, with lots of little
Japanese decorer toys safety pinned to it -- anime characters, old
world leaders, emblems from foreign soda-pop.

She held up a camera and snapped a picture of me and my crew.

"Cheese," she said. "You're on candid snitch-cam."

"No way," I said. "You wouldn't --"

"I will," she said. "I will send this photo to truant watch in thirty
seconds unless you four back off from this clue and let me and my
friends here run it down. You can come back in one hour and it'll be
all yours. I think that's more than fair."

I looked behind her and noticed three other girls in similar garb --
one with blue hair, one with green, and one with purple. "Who are you
supposed to be, the Popsicle Squad?"

"We're the team that's going to kick your team's ass at Harajuku Fun
Madness," she said. "And I'm the one who's *right this second* about to
upload your photo and get you in *so much trouble* --"

Behind me I felt Van start forward. Her all-girls school was notorious
for its brawls, and I was pretty sure she was ready to knock this
chick's block off.

Then the world changed forever.

We felt it first, that sickening lurch of the cement under your feet
that every Californian knows  instinctively -- *earthquake*. My first
inclination, as always, was to get away: "when in trouble or in doubt,
run in circles, scream and shout." But the fact was, we were already in
the safest place we could be, not in a building that could fall in on
us, not out toward the middle of the road where bits of falling cornice
could brain us.

Earthquakes are eerily quiet -- at first, anyway -- but this wasn't
quiet. This was loud, an incredible roaring sound that was louder than
anything I'd ever heard before. The sound was so punishing it drove me
to my knees, and I wasn't the only one. Darryl shook my arm and pointed
over the buildings and we saw it then: a huge black cloud rising from
the northeast, from the direction of the Bay.

There was another rumble, and the cloud of smoke spread out, that
spreading black shape we'd all grown up seeing in movies. Someone had
just blown up something, in a big way.

There were more rumbles and more tremors. Heads appeared at windows up
and down the street. We all looked at the mushroom cloud in silence.

Then the sirens started.

I'd heard sirens like these before -- they test the civil defense
sirens at noon on Tuesdays. But I'd only heard them go off unscheduled
in old war movies and video games, the kind where someone is bombing
someone else from above. Air raid sirens. The wooooooo sound made it
all less real.

"Report to shelters immediately." It was like the voice of God, coming
from all places at once. There were speakers on some of the electric
poles, something I'd never noticed before, and they'd all switched on
at once.

"Report to shelters immediately." Shelters? We looked at each other in
confusion. What shelters? The cloud was rising steadily, spreading out.
Was it nuclear? Were we breathing in our last breaths?

The girl with the pink hair grabbed her friends and they tore ass
downhill, back toward the BART station and the foot of the hills.

"REPORT TO SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY." There was screaming now, and a lot of
running around. Tourists -- you can always spot the tourists, they're
the ones who think CALIFORNIA = WARM and spend their San Francisco
holidays freezing in shorts and t-shirts -- scattered in every
direction.

"We should go!" Darryl hollered in my ear, just barely audible over the
shrieking of the sirens, which had been joined by traditional police
sirens. A dozen SFPD cruisers screamed past us.

"REPORT TO SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY."

"Down to the BART station," I hollered. My friends nodded. We closed
ranks and began to move quickly downhill.

&&&

Chapter 3

[[This chapter is dedicated to Borderlands Books, San Francisco's
magnificent independent science fiction bookstore. Borderlands is
basically located across the street from the fictional Cesar Chavez
High depicted in Little Brother, and it's not just notorious for its
brilliant events, signings, book clubs and such, but also for its
amazing hairless Egyptian cat, Ripley, who likes to perch like a
buzzing gargoyle on the computer at the front of the store. Borderlands
is about the friendliest bookstore you could ask for, filled with comfy
places to sit and read, and staffed by incredibly knowledgeable clerks
who know everything there is to know about science fiction. Even
better, they've always been willing to take orders for my book (by net
or phone) and hold them for me to sign when I drop into the store, then
they ship them within the US for free!]]

[[Borderland Books: http://www.borderlands-books.com/ 866 Valencia Ave,
San Francisco CA USA 94110 +1 888 893 4008]]

We passed a lot of people in the road on the way to the Powell Street
BART. They were running or walking, white-faced and silent or shouting
and panicked. Homeless people cowered in doorways and watched it all,
while a tall black tranny hooker shouted at two mustached young men
about something.

The closer we got to the BART, the worse the press of bodies became. By
the time we reached the stairway down into the station, it was a
mob-scene, a huge brawl of people trying to crowd their way down a
narrow staircase. I had my face crushed up against someone's back, and
someone else was pressed into my back.

Darryl was still beside me -- he was big enough that he was hard to
shove, and Jolu was right behind him, kind of hanging on to his waist.
I spied Vanessa a few yards away, trapped by more people.

"Screw you!" I heard Van yell behind me. "Pervert! Get your hands off
of me!"

I strained around against the crowd and saw Van looking with disgust at
an older guy in a nice suit who was kind of smirking at her. She was
digging in her purse and I knew what she was digging for.

"Don't mace him!" I shouted over the din. "You'll get us all too."

At the mention of the word mace, the guy looked scared and kind of
melted back, though the crowd kept him moving forward. Up ahead, I saw
someone, a middle-aged lady in a hippie dress, falter and fall. She
screamed as she went down, and I saw her thrashing to get up, but she
couldn't, the crowd's pressure was too strong. As I neared her, I bent
to help her up, and was nearly knocked over her. I ended up stepping on
her stomach as the crowd pushed me past her, but by then I don't think
she was feeling anything.

I was as scared as I'd ever been. There was screaming everywhere now,
and more bodies on the floor, and the press from behind was as
relentless as a bulldozer. It was all I could do to keep on my feet.

We were in the open concourse where the turnstiles were. It was hardly
any better here -- the enclosed space sent the voices around us echoing
back in a roar that made my head ring, and the smell and feeling of all
those bodies made me feel a claustrophobia I'd never known I was prone
to.

People were still cramming down the stairs, and more were squeezing
past the turnstiles and down the escalators onto the platforms, but it
was clear to me that this wasn't going to have a happy ending.

"Want to take our chances up top?" I said to Darryl.

"Yes, hell yes," he said. "This is vicious."

I looked to Vanessa -- there was no way she'd hear me. I managed to get
my phone out and I texted her.

> We're getting out of here

I saw her feel the vibe from her phone, then look down at it and then
back at me and nod vigorously. Darryl, meanwhile, had clued Jolu in.

"*What's the plan?* Darryl shouted in my ear.

"We're going to have to go back!" I shouted back, pointing at the
remorseless crush of bodies.

"It's impossible!" he said.

"It's just going to get more impossible the longer we wait!"

He shrugged. Van worked her way over to me and grabbed hold of my
wrist. I took Darryl and Darryl took Jolu by the other hand and we
pushed out.

It wasn't easy. We moved about three inches a minute at first, then
slowed down even more when we reached the stairway. The people we
passed were none too happy about us shoving them out of the way,
either. A couple people swore at us and there was a guy who looked like
he'd have punched me if he'd been able to get his arms loose. We passed
three more crushed people beneath us, but there was no way I could have
helped them. By that point, I wasn't even thinking of helping anyone.
All I could think of was finding the spaces in front of us to move
into, of Darryl's mighty straining on my wrist, of my death-grip on Van
behind me.

We popped free like Champagne corks an eternity later, blinking in the
grey smoky light. The air raid sirens were still blaring, and the sound
of emergency vehicles' sirens as they tore down Market Street was even
louder. There was almost no one on the streets anymore -- just the
people trying hopelessly to get underground. A lot of them were crying.
I spotted a bunch of empty benches -- usually staked out by skanky
winos -- and pointed toward them.

We moved for them, the sirens and the smoke making us duck and hunch
our shoulders. We got as far as the benches before Darryl fell forward.

We all yelled and Vanessa grabbed him and turned him over. The side of
his shirt was stained red, and the stain was spreading. She tugged his
shirt up and revealed a long, deep cut in his pudgy side.

"Someone freaking *stabbed* him in the crowd," Jolu said, his hands
clenching into fists. "Christ, that's vicious."

Darryl groaned and looked at us, then down at his side, then he groaned
and his head went back again.

Vanessa took off her jean jacket and then pulled off the cotton hoodie
she was wearing underneath it. She wadded it up and pressed it to
Darryl's side. "Take his head," she said to me. "Keep it elevated." To
Jolu she said, "Get his feet up -- roll up your coat or something."
Jolu moved quickly. Vanessa's mother is a nurse and she'd had first aid
training every summer at camp. She loved to watch people in movies get
their first aid wrong and make fun of them. I was so glad to have her
with us.

We sat there for a long time, holding the hoodie to Darryl's side. He
kept insisting that he was fine and that we should let him up, and Van
kept telling him to shut up and lie still before she kicked his ass.

"What about calling 911?" Jolu said.

I felt like an idiot. I whipped my phone out and punched 911. The sound
I got wasn't even a busy signal -- it was like a whimper of pain from
the phone system. You don't get sounds like that unless there's three
million people all dialing the same number at once. Who needs botnets
when you've got terrorists?

"What about Wikipedia?" Jolu said.

"No phone, no data," I said.

"What about them?" Darryl said, and pointed at the street. I looked
where he was pointing, thinking I'd see a cop or an paramedic, but
there was no one there.

"It's OK buddy, you just rest," I said.

"No, you idiot, what about *them*, the cops in the cars? There!"

He was right. Every five seconds, a cop car, an ambulance or a
firetruck zoomed past. They could get us some help. I was such an
idiot.

"Come on, then," I said, "let's get you where they can see you and flag
one down."

Vanessa didn't like it, but I figured a cop wasn't going to stop for a
kid waving his hat in the street, not that day. They just might stop if
they saw Darryl bleeding there, though. I argued briefly with her and
Darryl settled it by lurching to his feet and dragging himself down
toward Market Street.

The first vehicle that screamed past -- an ambulance -- didn't even
slow down. Neither did the cop car that went past, nor the firetruck,
nor the next three cop-cars. Darryl wasn't in good shape -- he was
white-faced and panting. Van's sweater was soaked in blood.

I was sick of cars driving right past me. The next time a car appeared
down Market Street, I stepped right out into the road, waving my arms
over my head, shouting "*STOP*." The car slewed to a stop and only then
did I notice that it wasn't a cop car, ambulance or fire-engine.

It was a military-looking Jeep, like an armored Hummer, only it didn't
have any military insignia on it. The car skidded to a stop just in
front of me, and I jumped back and lost my balance and ended up on the
road. I felt the doors open near me, and then saw a confusion of booted
feet moving close by. I looked up and saw a bunch of military-looking
guys in coveralls, holding big, bulky rifles and wearing hooded gas
masks with tinted face-plates.

I barely had time to register them before those rifles were pointed at
me. I'd never looked down the barrel of a gun before, but everything
you've heard about the experience is true. You freeze where you are,
time stops, and your heart thunders in your ears. I opened my mouth,
then shut it, then, very slowly, I held my hands up in front of me.

The faceless, eyeless armed man above me kept his gun very level. I
didn't even breathe. Van was screaming something and Jolu was shouting
and I looked at them for a second and that was when someone put a
coarse sack over my head and cinched it tight around my windpipe, so
quick and so fiercely I barely had time to gasp before it was locked on
me. I was pushed roughly but dispassionately onto my stomach and
something went twice around my wrists and then tightened up as well,
feeling like baling wire and biting cruelly. I cried out and my own
voice was muffled by the hood.

I was in total darkness now and I strained my ears to hear what was
going on with my friends. I heard them shouting through the muffling
canvas of the bag, and then I was being impersonally hauled to my feet
by my wrists, my arms wrenched up behind my back, my shoulders
screaming.

I stumbled some, then a hand pushed my head down and I was inside the
Hummer. More bodies were roughly shoved in beside me.

"Guys?" I shouted, and earned a hard thump on my head for my trouble. I
heard Jolu respond, then felt the thump he was dealt, too. My head rang
like a gong.

"Hey," I said to the soldiers. "Hey, listen! We're just high school
students. I wanted to flag you down because my friend was bleeding.
Someone stabbed him." I had no idea how much of this was making it
through the muffling bag. I kept talking. "Listen -- this is some kind
of misunderstanding. We've got to get my friend to a hospital --"

Someone went upside my head again. It felt like they used a baton or
something -- it was harder than anyone had ever hit me in the head
before. My eyes swam and watered and I literally couldn't breathe
through the pain. A moment later, I caught my breath, but I didn't say
anything. I'd learned my lesson.

Who were these clowns? They weren't wearing insignia. Maybe they were
terrorists! I'd never really believed in terrorists before -- I mean, I
knew that in the abstract there were terrorists somewhere in the world,
but they didn't really represent any risk to me. There were millions of
ways that the world could kill me -- starting with getting run down by
a drunk burning his way down Valencia -- that were infinitely more
likely and immediate than terrorists. Terrorists killed a lot fewer
people than bathroom falls and accidental electrocutions. Worrying
about them always struck me as about as useful as worrying about
getting hit by lightning.

Sitting in the back of that Hummer, my head in a hood, my hands lashed
behind my back, lurching back and forth while the bruises swelled up on
my head, terrorism suddenly felt a lot riskier.

The car rocked back and forth and tipped uphill. I gathered we were
headed over Nob Hill, and from the angle, it seemed we were taking one
of the steeper routes -- I guessed Powell Street.

Now we were descending just as steeply. If my mental map was right, we
were heading down to Fisherman's Wharf. You could get on a boat there,
get away. That fit with the terrorism hypothesis. Why the hell would
terrorists kidnap a bunch of high school students?

We rocked to a stop still on a downslope. The engine died and then the
doors swung open. Someone dragged me by my arms out onto the road, then
shoved me, stumbling, down a paved road. A few seconds later, I tripped
over a steel staircase, bashing my shins. The hands behind me gave me
another shove. I went up the stairs cautiously, not able to use my
hands. I got up the third step and reached for the fourth, but it
wasn't there. I nearly fell again, but new hands grabbed me from in
front and dragged me down a steel floor and then forced me to my knees
and locked my hands to something behind me.

More movement, and the sense of bodies being shackled in alongside of
me. Groans and muffled sounds. Laughter. Then a long, timeless eternity
in the muffled gloom, breathing my own breath, hearing my own breath in
my ears.



I actually managed a kind of sleep there, kneeling with the circulation
cut off to my legs, my head in canvas twilight. My body had squirted a
year's supply of adrenalin into my bloodstream in the space of 30
minutes, and while that stuff can give you the strength to lift cars
off your loved ones and leap over tall buildings, the payback's always
a bitch.

I woke up to someone pulling the hood off my head. They were neither
rough nor careful -- just...impersonal. Like someone at McDonald's
putting together burgers.

The light in the room was so bright I had to squeeze my eyes shut, but
slowly I was able to open them to slits, then cracks, then all the way
and look around.

We were all in the back of a truck, a big 16-wheeler. I could see the
wheel-wells at regular intervals down the length. But the back of this
truck had been turned into some kind of mobile command-post/jail. Steel
desks lined the walls with banks of slick flat-panel displays climbing
above them on articulated arms that let them be repositioned in a halo
around the operators. Each desk had a gorgeous office-chair in front of
it, festooned with user-interface knobs for adjusting every millimeter
of the sitting surface, as well as height, pitch and yaw.

Then there was the jail part -- at the front of the truck, furthest
away from the doors, there were steel rails bolted into the sides of
the vehicle, and attached to these steel rails were the prisoners.

I spotted Van and Jolu right away. Darryl might have been in the
remaining dozen shackled up back here, but it was impossible to say --
many of them were slumped over and blocking my view. It stank of sweat
and fear back there.

Vanessa looked at me and bit her lip. She was scared. So was I. So was
Jolu, his eyes rolling crazily in their sockets, the whites showing. I
was scared. What's more, I had to piss like a *race-horse.*

I looked around for our captors. I'd avoided looking at them up until
now, the same way you don't look into the dark of a closet where your
mind has conjured up a boogey-man. You don't want to know if you're
right.

But I had to get a better look at these jerks who'd kidnapped us. If
they were terrorists, I wanted to know. I didn't know what a terrorist
looked like, though TV shows had done their best to convince me that
they were brown Arabs with big beards and knit caps and loose cotton
dresses that hung down to their ankles.

Not so our captors. They could have been half-time-show cheerleaders on
the Super Bowl. They looked *American* in a way I couldn't exactly
define. Good jaw-lines, short, neat haircuts that weren't quite
military. They came in white and brown, male and female, and smiled
freely at one another as they sat down at the other end of the truck,
joking and drinking coffees out of go-cups. These weren't Ay-rabs from
Afghanistan: they looked like tourists from Nebraska.

I stared at one, a young white woman with brown hair who barely looked
older than me, kind of cute in a scary office-power-suit way. If you
stare at someone long enough, they'll eventually look back at you. She
did, and her face slammed into a totally different configuration,
dispassionate, even robotic. The smile vanished in an instant.

"Hey," I said. "Look, I don't understand what's going on here, but I
really need to take a leak, you know?"

She looked right through me as if she hadn't heard.

"I'm serious, if I don't get to a can soon, I'm going to have an ugly
accident. It's going to get pretty smelly back here, you know?"

She turned to her colleagues, a little huddle of three of them, and
they held a low conversation I couldn't hear over the fans from the
computers.

She turned back to me. "Hold it for another ten minutes, then you'll
each get a piss-call."

"I don't think I've got another ten minutes in me," I said, letting a
little more urgency than I was really feeling creep into my voice.
"Seriously, lady, it's now or never."

She shook her head and looked at me like I was some kind of pathetic
loser. She and her friends conferred some more, then another one came
forward. He was older, in his early thirties, and pretty big across the
shoulders, like he worked out. He looked like he was Chinese or Korean
-- even Van can't tell the difference sometimes -- but with that
bearing that said *American* in a way I couldn't put my finger on.

He pulled his sports-coat aside to let me see the hardware strapped
there: I recognized a pistol, a tazer and a can of either mace or
pepper-spray before he let it fall again.

"No trouble," he said.

"None," I agreed.

He touched something at his belt and the shackles behind me let go, my
arms dropping suddenly behind me. It was like he was wearing Batman's
utility belt -- wireless remotes for shackles! I guessed it made sense,
though: you wouldn't want to lean over your prisoners with all that
deadly hardware at their eye-level -- they might grab your gun with
their teeth and pull the trigger with their tongues or something.

My hands were still lashed together behind me by the plastic strapping,
and now that I wasn't supported by the shackles, I found that my legs
had turned into lumps of cork while I was stuck in one position. Long
story short, I basically fell onto my face and kicked my legs weakly as
they went pins-and-needles, trying to get them under me so I could rock
up to my feet.

The guy jerked me to my feet and I clown-walked to the very back of the
truck, to a little boxed-in porta-john there. I tried to spot Darryl on
the way back, but he could have been any of the five or six slumped
people. Or none of them.

"In you go," the guy said.

I jerked my wrists. "Take these off, please?" My fingers felt like
purple sausages from the hours of bondage in the plastic cuffs.

The guy didn't move.

"Look," I said, trying not to sound sarcastic or angry (it wasn't
easy). "Look. You either cut my wrists free or you're going to have to
aim for me. A toilet visit is not a hands-free experience." Someone in
the truck sniggered. The guy didn't like me, I could tell from the way
his jaw muscles ground around. Man, these people were wired tight.

He reached down to his belt and came up with a very nice set of
multi-pliers. He flicked out a wicked-looking knife and sliced through
the plastic cuffs and my hands were my own again.

"Thanks," I said.

He shoved me into the bathroom. My hands were useless, like lumps of
clay on the ends of my wrists. As I wiggled my fingers limply, they
tingled, then the tingling turned to a burning feeling that almost made
me cry out. I put the seat down, dropped my pants and sat down. I
didn't trust myself to stay on my feet.

As my bladder cut loose, so did my eyes. I wept, crying silently and
rocking back and forth while the tears and snot ran down my face. It
was all I could do to keep from sobbing -- I covered my mouth and held
the sounds in. I didn't want to give them the satisfaction.

Finally, I was peed out and cried out and the guy was pounding on the
door. I cleaned my face as best as I could with wads of toilet paper,
stuck it all down the john and flushed, then looked around for a sink
but only found a pump-bottle of heavy-duty hand-sanitizer covered in
small-print lists of the bio-agents it worked on. I rubbed some into my
hands and stepped out of the john.

"What were you doing in there?" the guy said.

"Using the facilities," I said. He turned me around and grabbed my
hands and I felt a new pair of plastic cuffs go around them. My wrists
had swollen since the last pair had come off and the new ones bit
cruelly into my tender skin, but I refused to give him the satisfaction
of crying out.

He shackled me back to my spot and grabbed the next person down, who, I
saw now, was Jolu, his face puffy and an ugly bruise on his cheek.

"Are you OK?" I asked him, and my friend with the utility belt abruptly
put his hand on my forehead and shoved hard, bouncing the back of my
head off the truck's metal wall with a sound like a clock striking one.
"No talking," he said as I struggled to refocus my eyes.

I didn't like these people. I decided right then that they would pay a
price for all this.

One by one, all the prisoners went to the can, and came back, and when
they were done, my guard went back to his friends and had another cup
of coffee -- they were drinking out of a big cardboard urn of
Starbucks, I saw -- and they had an indistinct conversation that
involved a fair bit of laughter.

Then the door at the back of the truck opened and there was fresh air,
not smoky the way it had been before, but tinged with ozone. In the
slice of outdoors I saw before the door closed, I caught that it was
dark out, and raining, with one of those San Francisco drizzles that's
part mist.

The man who came in was wearing a military uniform. A US military
uniform. He saluted the people in the truck and they saluted him back
and that's when I knew that I wasn't a prisoner of some terrorists -- I
was a prisoner of the United States of America.



They set up a little screen at the end of the truck and then came for
us one at a time, unshackling us and leading us to the back of the
truck. As close as I could work it -- counting seconds off in my head,
one hippopotami, two hippopotami -- the interviews lasted about seven
minutes each. My head throbbed with dehydration and caffeine
withdrawal.

I was third, brought back by the woman with the severe haircut. Up
close, she looked tired, with bags under her eyes and grim lines at the
corners of her mouth.

"Thanks," I said, automatically, as she unlocked me with a remote and
then dragged me to my feet. I hated myself for the automatic
politeness, but it had been drilled into me.

She didn't twitch a muscle. I went ahead of her to the back of the
truck and behind the screen. There was a single folding chair and I sat
in it. Two of them -- Severe Haircut woman and utility belt man --
looked at me from their ergonomic super-chairs.

They had a little table between them with the contents of my wallet and
backpack spread out on it.

"Hello, Marcus," Severe Haircut woman said. "We have some questions for
you."

"Am I under arrest?" I asked. This wasn't an idle question. If you're
not under arrest, there are limits on what the cops can and can't do to
you. For starters, they can't hold you forever without arresting you,
giving you a phone call, and letting you talk to a lawyer. And hoo-boy,
was I ever going to talk to a lawyer.

"What's this for?" she said, holding up my phone. The screen was
showing the error message you got if you kept trying to get into its
data without giving the right password. It was a bit of a rude message
-- an animated hand giving a certain universally recognized gesture --
because I liked to customize my gear.

"Am I under arrest?" I repeated. They can't make you answer any
questions if you're not under arrest, and when you ask if you're under
arrest, they have to answer you. It's the rules.

"You're being detained by the Department of Homeland Security," the
woman snapped.

"Am I under arrest?"

"You're going to be more cooperative, Marcus, starting right now." She
didn't say, "or else," but it was implied.

"I would like to contact an attorney," I said. "I would like to know
what I've been charged with. I would like to see some form of
identification from both of you."

The two agents exchanged looks.

"I think you should really reconsider your approach to this situation,"
Severe Haircut woman said. "I think you should do that right now. We
found a number of suspicious devices on your person. We found you and
your confederates near the site of the worst terrorist attack this
country has ever seen. Put those two facts together and things don't
look very good for you, Marcus. You can cooperate, or you can be very,
very sorry. Now, what is this for?"

"You think I'm a terrorist? I'm seventeen years old!"

"Just the right age -- Al Qaeda loves recruiting impressionable,
idealistic kids. We googled you, you know. You've posted a lot of very
ugly stuff on the public Internet."

"I would like to speak to an attorney," I said.

Severe haircut lady looked at me like I was a bug. "You're under the
mistaken impression that you've been picked up by the police for a
crime. You need to get past that. You are being detained as a potential
enemy combatant by the government of the United States. If I were you,
I'd be thinking very hard about how to convince us that you are not an
enemy combatant. Very hard. Because there are dark holes that enemy
combatants can disappear into, very dark deep holes, holes where you
can just vanish. Forever. Are you listening to me young man? I want you
to unlock this phone and then decrypt the files in its memory. I want
you to account for yourself: why were you out on the street? What do
you know about the attack on this city?"

"I'm not going to unlock my phone for you," I said, indignant. My
phone's memory had all kinds of private stuff on it: photos, emails,
little hacks and mods I'd installed. "That's private stuff."

"What have you got to hide?"

"I've got the right to my privacy," I said. "And I want to speak to an
attorney."

"This is your last chance, kid. Honest people don't have anything to
hide."

"I want to speak to an attorney." My parents would pay for it. All the
FAQs on getting arrested were clear on this point. Just keep asking to
see an attorney, no matter what they say or do. There's no good that
comes of talking to the cops without your lawyer present. These two
said they weren't cops, but if this wasn't an arrest, what was it?

In hindsight, maybe I should have unlocked my phone for them.

&&&

Chapter 4

[[This chapter is dedicated to Barnes and Noble, a US national chain of
bookstores. As America's mom-and-pop bookstores were vanishing, Barnes
and Noble started to build these gigantic temples to reading all across
the land. Stocking tens of thousands of titles (the mall bookstores and
grocery-store spinner racks had stocked a small fraction of that) and
keeping long hours that were convenient to families, working people and
others potential readers, the B&N stores kept the careers of many
writers afloat, stocking titles that smaller stores couldn't possibly
afford to keep on their limited shelves. B&N has always had strong
community outreach programs, and I've done some of my best-attended,
best-organized signings at B&N stores, including the great events at
the (sadly departed) B&N in Union Square, New York, where the
mega-signing after the Nebula Awards took place, and the B&N in Chicago
that hosted the event after the Nebs a few years later. Best of all is
that B&N's "geeky" buyers really Get It when it comes to science
fiction, comics and manga, games and similar titles. They're passionate
and knowledgeable about the field and it shows in the excellent
selection on display at the stores.]]

[[Barnes and Noble, nationwide:
http://search.barnesandnoble.com/Little-Brother/Cory-Doctorow/e/
9780765319852/?itm=6]]

They re-shackled and re-hooded me and left me there. A long time later,
the truck started to move, rolling downhill, and then I was hauled back
to my feet. I immediately fell over. My legs were so asleep they felt
like blocks of ice, all except my knees, which were swollen and tender
from all the hours of kneeling.

Hands grabbed my shoulders and feet and I was picked up like a sack of
potatoes. There were indistinct voices around me. Someone crying.
Someone cursing.

I was carried a short distance, then set down and re-shackled to
another railing. My knees wouldn't support me anymore and I pitched
forward, ending up twisted on the ground like a pretzel, straining
against the chains holding my wrists.

Then we were moving again, and this time, it wasn't like driving in a
truck. The floor beneath me rocked gently and vibrated with heavy
diesel engines and I realized I was on a ship! My stomach turned to
ice. I was being taken off America's shores to somewhere *else*, and
who the hell knew where that was? I'd been scared before, but this
thought *terrified* me, left me paralyzed and wordless with fear. I
realized that I might never see my parents again and I actually tasted
a little vomit burn up my throat. The bag over my head closed in on me
and I could barely breathe, something that was compounded by the weird
position I was twisted into.

But mercifully we weren't on the water for very long. It felt like an
hour, but I know now that it was a mere fifteen minutes, and then I
felt us docking, felt footsteps on the decking around me and felt other
prisoners being unshackled and carried or led away. When they came for
me, I tried to stand again, but couldn't, and they carried me again,
impersonally, roughly.

When they took the hood off again, I was in a cell.

The cell was old and crumbled, and smelled of sea air. There was one
window high up, and rusted bars guarded it. It was still dark outside.
There was a blanket on the floor and a little metal toilet without a
seat, set into the wall. The guard who took off my hood grinned at me
and closed the solid steel door behind him.

I gently massaged my legs, hissing as the blood came back into them and
into my hands. Eventually I was able to stand, and then to pace. I
heard other people talking, crying, shouting. I did some shouting too:
"Jolu! Darryl! Vanessa!" Other voices on the cell-block took up the
cry, shouting out names, too, shouting out obscenities. The nearest
voices sounded like drunks losing their minds on a street-corner. Maybe
I sounded like that too.

Guards shouted at us to be quiet and that just made everyone yell
louder. Eventually we were all howling, screaming our heads off,
screaming our throats raw. Why not? What did we have to lose?



The next time they came to question me, I was filthy and tired, thirsty
and hungry. Severe haircut lady was in the new questioning party, as
were three big guys who moved me around like a cut of meat. One was
black, the other two were white, though one might have been hispanic.
They all carried guns. It was like a Benneton's ad crossed with a game
of Counter-Strike.

They'd taken me from my cell and chained my wrists and ankles together.
I paid attention to my surroundings as we went. I heard water outside
and thought that maybe we were on Alcatraz -- it was a prison, after
all, even if it had been a tourist attraction for generations, the
place where you went to see where Al Capone and his gangster
contemporaries did their time. But I'd been to Alcatraz on a school
trip. It was old and rusted, medieval. This place felt like it dated
back to World War Two, not colonial times.

There were bar-codes laser-printed on stickers and placed on each of
the cell-doors, and numbers, but other than that, there was no way to
tell who or what might be behind them.

The interrogation room was modern, with fluorescent lights, ergonomic
chairs -- not for me, though, I got a folding plastic garden-chair --
and a big wooden board-room table. A mirror lined one wall, just like
in the cop shows, and I figured someone or other must be watching from
behind it. Severe haircut lady and her friends helped themselves to
coffees from an urn on a side-table (I could have torn her throat out
with my teeth and taken her coffee just then), and then set a styrofoam
cup of water down next to me -- without unlocking my wrists from behind
my back, so I couldn't reach it. Hardy har har.

"Hello, Marcus," Severe Haircut woman said. "How's your 'tude doing
today?"

I didn't say anything.

"This isn't as bad as it gets you know," she said. "This is as *good*
as it gets from now on. Even once you tell us what we want to know,
even if that convinces us that you were just in the wrong place at the
wrong time, you're a marked man now. We'll be watching you everywhere
you go and everything you do. You've acted like you've got something to
hide, and we don't like that."

It's pathetic, but all my brain could think about was that phrase,
"convince us that you were in the wrong place at the wrong time." This
was the worst thing that had ever happened to me. I had never, ever
felt this bad or this scared before. Those words, "wrong place at the
wrong time," those six words, they were like a lifeline dangling before
me as I thrashed to stay on the surface.

"Hello, Marcus?" she snapped her fingers in front of my face. "Over
here, Marcus." There was a little smile on her face and I hated myself
for letting her see my fear. "Marcus, it can be a lot worse than this.
This isn't the worst place we can put you, not by a damned sight." She
reached down below the table and came out with a briefcase, which she
snapped open. From it, she withdrew my phone, my arphid sniper/cloner,
my wifinder, and my memory keys. She set them down on the table one
after the other.

"Here's what we want from you. You unlock the phone for us today. If
you do that, you'll get outdoor and bathing privileges. You'll get a
shower and you'll be allowed to walk around in the exercise yard.
Tomorrow, we'll bring you back and ask you to decrypt the data on these
memory sticks. Do that, and you'll get to eat in the mess hall. The day
after, we're going to want your email passwords, and that will get you
library privileges."

The word "no" was on my lips, like a burp trying to come up, but it
wouldn't come. "Why?" is what came out instead.

"We want to be sure that you're what you seem to be. This is about your
security, Marcus. Say you're innocent. You might be, though why an
innocent man would act like he's got so much to hide is beyond me. But
say you are: you could have been on that bridge when it blew. Your
parents could have been. Your friends. Don't you want us to catch the
people who attacked your home?"

It's funny, but when she was talking about my getting "privileges" it
scared me into submission. I felt like I'd done *something* to end up
where I was, like maybe it was partially my fault, like I could do
something to change it.

But as soon as she switched to this BS about "safety" and "security,"
my spine came back. "Lady," I said, "you're talking about attacking my
home, but as far as I can tell, you're the only one who's attacked me
lately. I thought I lived in a country with a constitution. I thought I
lived in a country where I had *rights*. You're talking about defending
my freedom by tearing up the Bill of Rights."

A flicker of annoyance passed over her face, then went away. "So
melodramatic, Marcus. No one's attacked you. You've been detained by
your country's government while we seek details on the worst terrorist
attack ever perpetrated on our nation's soil. You have it within your
power to help us fight this war on our nation's enemies. You want to
preserve the Bill of Rights? Help us stop bad people from blowing up
your city. Now, you have exactly thirty seconds to unlock that phone
before I send you back to your cell. We have lots of other people to
interview today."

She looked at her watch. I rattled my wrists, rattled the chains that
kept me from reaching around and unlocking the phone. Yes, I was going
to do it. She'd told me what my path was to freedom -- to the world, to
my parents -- and that had given me hope. Now she'd threatened to send
me away, to take me off that path, and my hope had crashed and all I
could think of was how to get back on it.

So I rattled my wrists, wanting to get to my phone and unlock it for
her, and she just looked at me coldly, checking her watch.

"The password," I said, finally understanding what she wanted of me.
She wanted me to say it out loud, here, where she could record it,
where her pals could hear it. She didn't want me to just unlock the
phone. She wanted me to submit to her. To put her in charge of me. To
give up every secret, all my privacy. "The password," I said again, and
then I told her the password. God help me, I submitted to her will.

She smiled a little prim smile, which had to be her ice-queen
equivalent of a touchdown dance, and the guards led me away. As the
door closed, I saw her bend down over the phone and key the password
in.

I wish I could say that I'd anticipated this possibility in advance and
created a fake password that unlocked a completely innocuous partition
on my phone, but I wasn't nearly that paranoid/clever.

You might be wondering at this point what dark secrets I had locked
away on my phone and memory sticks and email. I'm just a kid, after
all.

The truth is that I had everything to hide, and nothing. Between my
phone and my memory sticks, you could get a pretty good idea of who my
friends were, what I thought of them, all the goofy things we'd done.
You could read the transcripts of the electronic arguments we'd carried
out and the electronic reconciliations we'd arrived at.

You see, I don't delete stuff. Why would I? Storage is cheap, and you
never know when you're going to want to go back to that stuff.
Especially the stupid stuff. You know that feeling you get sometimes
where you're sitting on the subway and there's no one to talk to and
you suddenly remember some bitter fight you had, some terrible thing
you said? Well, it's usually never as bad as you remember. Being able
to go back and see it again is a great way to remind yourself that
you're not as horrible a person as you think you are. Darryl and I have
gotten over more fights that way than I can count.

And even that's not it. I know my phone is private. I know my memory
sticks are private. That's because of cryptography -- message
scrambling. The math behind crypto is good and solid, and you and me
get access to the same crypto that banks and the National Security
Agency use. There's only one kind of crypto that anyone uses: crypto
that's public, open and can be deployed by anyone. That's how you know
it works.

There's something really liberating about having some corner of your
life that's *yours*, that no one gets to see except you. It's a little
like nudity or taking a dump. Everyone gets naked every once in a
while. Everyone has to squat on the toilet. There's nothing shameful,
deviant or weird about either of them. But what if I decreed that from
now on, every time you went to evacuate some solid waste, you'd have to
do it in a glass room perched in the middle of Times Square, and you'd
be buck naked?

Even if you've got nothing wrong or weird with your body -- and how
many of us can say that? -- you'd have to be pretty strange to like
that idea. Most of us would run screaming. Most of us would hold it in
until we exploded.

It's not about doing something shameful. It's about doing something
*private*. It's about your life belonging to you.

They were taking that from me, piece by piece. As I walked back to my
cell, that feeling of deserving it came back to me. I'd broken a lot of
rules all my life and I'd gotten away with it, by and large. Maybe this
was justice. Maybe this was my past coming back to me. After all, I had
been where I was because I'd snuck out of school.

I got my shower. I got to walk around the yard. There was a patch of
sky overhead, and it smelled like the Bay Area, but beyond that, I had
no clue where I was being held. No other prisoners were visible during
my exercise period, and I got pretty bored with walking in circles. I
strained my ears for any sound that might help me understand what this
place was, but all I heard was the occasional vehicle, some distant
conversations, a plane landing somewhere nearby.

They brought me back to my cell and fed me, a half a pepperoni pie from
Goat Hill Pizza, which I knew well, up on Potrero Hill. The carton with
its familiar graphic and 415 phone number was a reminder that only a
day before, I'd been a free man in a free country and that now I was a
prisoner. I worried constantly about Darryl and fretted about my other
friends. Maybe they'd been more cooperative and had been released.
Maybe they'd told my parents and they were frantically calling around.

Maybe not.

The cell was fantastically spare, empty as my soul. I fantasized that
the wall opposite my bunk was a screen, that I could be hacking right
now, opening the cell-door. I fantasized about my workbench and the
projects there -- the old cans I was turning into a ghetto
surround-sound rig, the aerial photography kite-cam I was building, my
homebrew laptop.

I wanted to get out of there. I wanted to go home and have my friends
and my school and my parents and my life back. I wanted to be able to
go where I wanted to go, not be stuck pacing and pacing and pacing.



They took my passwords for my USB keys next. Those held some
interesting messages I'd downloaded from one online discussion group or
another, some chat transcripts, things where people had helped me out
with some of the knowledge I needed to do the things I did. There was
nothing on there you couldn't find with Google, of course, but I didn't
think that would count in my favor.

I got exercise again that afternoon, and this time there were others in
the yard when I got there, four other guys and two women, of all ages
and racial backgrounds. I guess lots of people were doing things to
earn their "privileges."

They gave me half an hour, and I tried to make conversation with the
most normal-seeming of the other prisoners, a black guy about my age
with a short afro. But when I introduced myself and stuck my hand out,
he cut his eyes toward the cameras mounted ominously in the corners of
the yard and kept walking without ever changing his facial expression.

But then, just before they called my name and brought me back into the
building, the door opened and out came -- Vanessa! I'd never been more
glad to see a friendly face. She looked tired and grumpy, but not hurt,
and when she saw me, she shouted my name and ran to me. We hugged each
other hard and I realized I was shaking. Then I realized she was
shaking, too.

"Are you OK?" she said, holding me at arms' length.

"I'm OK," I said. "They told me they'd let me go if I gave them my
passwords."

"They keep asking me questions about you and Darryl."

There was a voice blaring over the loudspeaker, shouting at us to stop
talking, to walk, but we ignored it.

"Answer them," I said, instantly. "Anything they ask, answer them. If
it'll get you out."

"How are Darryl and Jolu?"

"I haven't seen them."

The door banged open and four big guards boiled out. Two took me and
two took Vanessa. They forced me to the ground and turned my head away
from Vanessa, though I heard her getting the same treatment. Plastic
cuffs went around my wrists and then I was yanked to my feet and
brought back to my cell.

No dinner came that night. No breakfast came the next morning. No one
came and brought me to the interrogation room to extract more of my
secrets. The plastic cuffs didn't come off, and my shoulders burned,
then ached, then went numb, then burned again. I lost all feeling in my
hands.

I had to pee. I couldn't undo my pants. I really, really had to pee.

I pissed myself.

They came for me after that, once the hot piss had cooled and gone
clammy, making my already filthy jeans stick to my legs. They came for
me and walked me down the long hall lined with doors, each door with
its own bar code, each bar code a prisoner like me. They walked me down
the corridor and brought me to the interrogation room and it was like a
different planet when I entered there, a world where things were
normal, where everything didn't reek of urine. I felt so dirty and
ashamed, and all those feelings of deserving what I got came back to
me.

Severe haircut lady was already sitting. She was perfect: coifed and
with just a little makeup. I smelled her hair stuff. She wrinkled her
nose at me. I felt the shame rise in me.

"Well, you've been a very naughty boy, haven't you? Aren't you a filthy
thing?"

Shame. I looked down at the table. I couldn't bear to look up. I wanted
to tell her my email password and get gone.

"What did you and your friend talk about in the yard?"

I barked a laugh at the table. "I told her to answer your questions. I
told her to cooperate."

"So do you give the orders?"

I felt the blood sing in my ears. "Oh come on," I said. "We play a
*game* together, it's called Harajuku Fun Madness. I'm the *team
captain*. We're not terrorists, we're high school students. I don't
give her orders. I told her that we needed to be *honest* with you so
that we could clear up any suspicion and get out of here."

She didn't say anything for a moment.

"How is Darryl?" I said.

"Who?"

"Darryl. You picked us up together. My friend. Someone had stabbed him
in the Powell Street BART. That's why we were up on the surface. To get
him help."

"I'm sure he's fine, then," she said.

My stomach knotted and I almost threw up. "You don't *know*? You
haven't got him here?"

"Who we have here and who we don't have here is not something we're
going to discuss with you, ever. That's not something you're going to
know. Marcus, you've seen what happens when you don't cooperate with
us. You've seen what happens when you disobey our orders. You've been a
little cooperative, and it's gotten you almost to the point where you
might go free again. If you want to make that possibility into a
reality, you'll stick to answering my questions."

I didn't say anything.

"You're learning, that's good. Now, your email passwords, please."

I was ready for this. I gave them everything: server address, login,
password. This didn't matter. I didn't keep any email on my server. I
downloaded it all and kept it on my laptop at home, which downloaded
and deleted my mail from the server every sixty seconds. They wouldn't
get anything out of my mail -- it got cleared off the server and stored
on my laptop at home.

Back to the cell, but they cut loose my hands and they gave me a shower
and a pair of orange prison pants to wear. They were too big for me and
hung down low on my hips, like a Mexican gang-kid in the Mission.
That's where the baggy-pants-down-your-ass look comes from you know
that? From prison. I tell you what, it's less fun when it's not a
fashion statement.

They took away my jeans, and I spent another day in the cell. The walls
were scratched cement over a steel grid. You could tell, because the
steel was rusting in the salt air, and the grid shone through the green
paint in red-orange. My parents were out that window, somewhere.

They came for me again the next day.

"We've been reading your mail for a day now. We changed the password so
that your home computer couldn't fetch it."

Well, of course they had. I would have done the same, now that I
thought of it.

"We have enough on you now to put you away for a very long time,
Marcus. Your possession of these articles --" she gestured at all my
little gizmos -- "and the data we recovered from your phone and memory
sticks, as well as the subversive material we'd no doubt find if we
raided your house and took your computer. It's enough to put you away
until you're an old man. Do you understand that?"

I didn't believe it for a second. There's no way a judge would say that
all this stuff constituted any kind of real crime. It was free speech,
it was technological tinkering. It wasn't a crime.

But who said that these people would ever put me in front of a judge.

"We know where you live, we know who your friends are. We know how you
operate and how you think."

It dawned on me then. They were about to let me go. The room seemed to
brighten. I heard myself breathing, short little breaths.

"We just want to know one thing: what was the delivery mechanism for
the bombs on the bridge?"

I stopped breathing. The room darkened again.

"What?"

"There were ten charges on the bridge, all along its length. They
weren't in car-trunks. They'd been placed there. Who placed them there,
and how did they get there?"

"What?" I said it again.

"This is your last chance, Marcus," she said. She looked sad. "You were
doing so well until now. Tell us this and you can go home. You can get
a lawyer and defend yourself in a court of law. There are doubtless
extenuating circumstances that you can use to explain your actions.
Just tell us this thing, and you're gone."

"I don't know what you're talking about!" I was crying and I didn't
even care. Sobbing, blubbering. "I have *no idea what you're talking
about*!"

She shook her head. "Marcus, please. Let us help you. By now you know
that we always get what we're after."

There was a gibbering sound in the back of my mind. They were *insane*.
I pulled myself together, working hard to stop the tears. "Listen,
lady, this is nuts. You've been into my stuff, you've seen it all. I'm
a seventeen year old high school student, not a terrorist! You can't
seriously think --"

"Marcus, haven't you figured out that we're serious yet?" She shook her
head. "You get pretty good grades. I thought you'd be smarter than
that." She made a flicking gesture and the guards picked me up by the
armpits.

Back in my cell, a hundred little speeches occurred to me. The French
call this "esprit d'escalier" -- the spirit of the staircase, the
snappy rebuttals that come to you after you leave the room and slink
down the stairs. In my mind, I stood and delivered, telling her that I
was a citizen who loved my freedom, which made me the patriot and made
her the traitor. In my mind, I shamed her for turning my country into
an armed camp. In my mind, I was eloquent and brilliant and reduced her
to tears.

But you know what? None of those fine words came back to me when they
pulled me out the next day. All I could think of was freedom. My
parents.

"Hello, Marcus," she said. "How are you feeling?"

I looked down at the table. She had a neat pile of documents in front
of her, and her ubiquitous go-cup of Starbucks beside her. I found it
comforting somehow, a reminder that there was a real world out there
somewhere, beyond the walls.

"We're through investigating you, for now." She let that hang there.
Maybe it meant that she was letting me go. Maybe it meant that she was
going to throw me in a pit and forget that I existed.

"And?" I said finally.

"And I want you to impress on you again that we are very serious about
this. Our country has experienced the worst attack ever committed on
its soil. How many 9/11s do you want us to suffer before you're willing
to cooperate? The details of our investigation are secret. We won't
stop at anything in our efforts to bring the perpetrators of these
heinous crimes to justice. Do you understand that?"

"Yes," I mumbled.

"We are going to send you home today, but you are a marked man. You
have not been found to be above suspicion -- we're only releasing you
because we're done questioning you for now. But from now on, you
*belong* to us. We will be watching you. We'll be waiting for you to
make a misstep. Do you understand that we can watch you closely, all
the time?"

"Yes," I mumbled.

"Good. You will never speak of what happened here to anyone, ever. This
is a matter of national security. Do you know that the death penalty
still holds for treason in time of war?"

"Yes," I mumbled.

"Good boy," she purred. "We have some papers here for you to sign." She
pushed the stack of papers across the table to me. Little post-its with
SIGN HERE printed on them had been stuck throughout them. A guard undid
my cuffs.

I paged through the papers and my eyes watered and my head swam. I
couldn't make sense of them. I tried to decipher the legalese. It
seemed that I was signing a declaration that I had been voluntarily
held and submitted to voluntary questioning, of my own free will.

"What happens if I don't sign this?" I said.

She snatched the papers back and made that flicking gesture again. The
guards jerked me to my feet.

"Wait!" I cried. "Please! I'll sign them!" They dragged me to the door.
All I could see was that door, all I could think of was it closing
behind me.

I lost it. I wept. I begged to be allowed to sign the papers. To be so
close to freedom and have it snatched away, it made me ready to do
anything. I can't count the number of times I've heard someone say,
"Oh, I'd rather die than do something-or-other" -- I've said it myself
now and again. But that was the first time I understood what it really
meant. I would have rather died than go back to my cell.

I begged as they took me out into the corridor. I told them I'd sign
anything.

She called out to the guards and they stopped. They brought me back.
They sat me down. One of them put the pen in my hand.

Of course, I signed, and signed and signed.



My jeans and t-shirt were back in my cell, laundered and folded. They
smelled of detergent. I put them on and washed my face and sat on my
cot and stared at the wall. They'd taken everything from me. First my
privacy, then my dignity. I'd been ready to sign anything. I would have
signed a confession that said I'd assassinated Abraham Lincoln.

I tried to cry, but it was like my eyes were dry, out of tears.

They got me again. A guard approached me with a hood, like the hood I'd
been put in when they picked us up, whenever that was, days ago, weeks
ago.

The hood went over my head and cinched tight at my neck. I was in total
darkness and the air was stifling and stale. I was raised to my feet
and walked down corridors, up stairs, on gravel. Up a gangplank. On a
ship's steel deck. My hands were chained behind me, to a railing. I
knelt on the deck and listened to the thrum of the diesel engines.

The ship moved. A hint of salt air made its way into the hood. It was
drizzling and my clothes were heavy with water. I was outside, even if
my head was in a bag. I was outside, in the world, moments from my
freedom.

They came for me and led me off the boat and over uneven ground. Up
three metal stairs. My wrists were unshackled. My hood was removed.

I was back in the truck. Severe haircut woman was there, at the little
desk she'd sat at before. She had a ziploc bag with her, and inside it
were my phone and other little devices, my wallet and the change from
my pockets. She handed them to me wordlessly.

I filled my pockets. It felt so weird to have everything back in its
familiar place, to be wearing my familiar clothes. Outside the truck's
back door, I heard the familiar sounds of my familiar city.

A guard passed me my backpack. The woman extended her hand to me. I
just looked at it. She put it down and gave me a wry smile. Then she
mimed zipping up her lips and pointed to me, and opened the door.

It was daylight outside, gray and drizzling. I was looking down an
alley toward cars and trucks and bikes zipping down the road. I stood
transfixed on the truck's top step, staring at freedom.

My knees shook. I knew now that they were playing with me again. In a
moment, the guards would grab me and drag me back inside, the bag would
go over my head again, and I would be back on the boat and sent off to
the prison again, to the endless, unanswerable questions. I barely held
myself back from stuffing my fist in my mouth.

Then I forced myself to go down one stair. Another stair. The last
stair. My sneakers crunched down on the crap on the alley's floor,
broken glass, a needle, gravel. I took a step. Another. I reached the
mouth of the alley and stepped onto the sidewalk.

No one grabbed me.

I was free.

Then strong arms threw themselves around me. I nearly cried.

&&&

Chapter 5

[[This chapter is dedicated to Secret Headquarters in Los Angeles, my
drop-dead all-time favorite comic store in the world. It's small and
selective about what it stocks, and every time I walk in, I walk out
with three or four collections I'd never heard of under my arm. It's
like the owners, Dave and David, have the uncanny ability to predict
exactly what I'm looking for, and they lay it out for me seconds before
I walk into the store. I discovered about three quarters of my favorite
comics by wandering into SHQ, grabbing something interesting, sinking
into one of the comfy chairs, and finding myself transported to another
world. When my second story-collection, OVERCLOCKED, came out, they
worked with local illustrator Martin Cenreda to do a free mini-comic
based on Printcrime, the first story in the book. I left LA about a
year ago, and of all the things I miss about it, Secret Headquarters is
right at the top of the list.]]

[[Secret Headquarters: http://www.thesecretheadquarters.com/ 3817 W.
Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90026 +1 323 666 2228]]

But it was Van, and she *was* crying, and hugging me so hard I couldn't
breathe. I didn't care. I hugged her back, my face buried in her hair.

"You're OK!" she said.

"I'm OK," I managed.

She finally let go of me and another set of arms wrapped themselves
around me. It was Jolu! They were both there. He whispered, "You're
safe, bro," in my ear and hugged me even tighter than Vanessa had.

When he let go, I looked around. "Where's Darryl?" I asked.

They both looked at each other. "Maybe he's still in the truck," Jolu
said.

We turned and looked at the truck at the alley's end. It was a
nondescript white 18-wheeler. Someone had already brought the little
folding staircase inside. The rear lights glowed red, and the truck
rolled backwards towards us, emitting a steady eep, eep, eep.

"Wait!" I shouted as it accelerated towards us. "Wait! What about
Darryl?" The truck drew closer. I kept shouting. "What about Darryl?"

Jolu and Vanessa each had me by an arm and were dragging me away. I
struggled against them, shouting. The truck pulled out of the alley's
mouth and reversed into the street and pointed itself downhill and
drove away. I tried to run after it, but Van and Jolu wouldn't let me
go.

I sat down on the sidewalk and put my arms around my knees and cried. I
cried and cried and cried, loud sobs of the sort I hadn't done since I
was a little kid. They wouldn't stop coming. I couldn't stop shaking.

Vanessa and Jolu got me to my feet and moved me a little ways up the
street. There was a Muni bus stop with a bench and they sat me on it.
They were both crying too, and we held each other for a while, and I
knew we were crying for Darryl, whom none of us ever expected to see
again.



We were north of Chinatown, at the part where it starts to become North
Beach, a neighborhood with a bunch of neon strip clubs and the
legendary City Lights counterculture bookstore, where the Beat poetry
movement had been founded back in the 1950s.

I knew this part of town well. My parents' favorite Italian restaurant
was here and they liked to take me here for big plates of linguine and
huge Italian ice-cream mountains with candied figs and lethal little
espressos afterward.

Now it was a different place, a place where I was tasting freedom for
the first time in what seemed like an eternity.

We checked our pockets and found enough money to get a table at one of
the Italian restaurants, out on the sidewalk, under an awning. The
pretty waitress lighted a gas-heater with a barbeque lighter, took our
orders and went inside. The sensation of giving orders, of controlling
my destiny, was the most amazing thing I'd ever felt.

"How long were we in there?" I asked.

"Six days," Vanessa said.

"I got five," Jolu said.

"I didn't count."

"What did they do to you?" Vanessa said. I didn't want to talk about
it, but they were both looking at me. Once I started, I couldn't stop.
I told them everything, even when I'd been forced to piss myself, and
they took it all in silently. I paused when the waitress delivered our
sodas and waited until she got out of earshot, then finished. In the
telling, it receded into the distance. By the end of it, I couldn't
tell if I was embroidering the truth or if I was making it all seem
*less* bad. My memories swam like little fish that I snatched at, and
sometimes they wriggled out of my grasp.

Jolu shook his head. "They were hard on you, dude," he said. He told us
about his stay there. They'd questioned him, mostly about me, and he'd
kept on telling them the truth, sticking to a plain telling of the
facts about that day and about our friendship. They had gotten him to
repeat it over and over again, but they hadn't played games with his
head the way they had with me. He'd eaten his meals in a mess-hall with
a bunch of other people, and been given time in a TV room where they
were shown last year's blockbusters on video.

Vanessa's story was only slightly different. After she'd gotten them
angry by talking to me, they'd taken away her clothes and made her wear
a set of orange prison overalls. She'd been left in her cell for two
days without contact, though she'd been fed regularly. But mostly it
was the same as Jolu: the same questions, repeated again and again.

"They really hated you," Jolu said. "Really had it in for you. Why?"

I couldn't imagine why. Then I remembered.

*You can cooperate, or you can be very, very sorry.*

"It was because I wouldn't unlock my phone for them, that first night.
That's why they singled me out." I couldn't believe it, but there was
no other explanation. It had been sheer vindictiveness. My mind reeled
at the thought. They had done all that as a mere punishment for defying
their authority.

I had been scared. Now I was angry. "Those bastards," I said, softly.
"They did it to get back at me for mouthing off."

Jolu swore and then Vanessa cut loose in Korean, something she only did
when she was really, really angry.

"I'm going to get them," I whispered, staring at my soda. "I'm going to
get them."

Jolu shook his head. "You can't, you know. You can't fight back against
that."



None of us much wanted to talk about revenge then. Instead, we talked
about what we would do next. We had to go home. Our phones' batteries
were dead and it had been years since this neighborhood had any
payphones. We just needed to go home. I even thought about taking a
taxi, but there wasn't enough money between us to make that possible.

So we walked. On the corner, we pumped some quarters into a San
Francisco Chronicle newspaper box and stopped to read the front
section. It had been five days since the bombs went off, but it was
still all over the front cover.

Severe haircut woman had talked about "the bridge" blowing up, and I'd
just assumed that she was talking about the Golden Gate bridge, but I
was wrong. The terrorists had blown up the *Bay bridge*.

"Why the hell would they blow up the Bay Bridge?" I said. "The Golden
Gate is the one on all the postcards." Even if you've never been to San
Francisco, chances are you know what the Golden Gate looks like: it's
that big orange suspension bridge that swoops dramatically from the old
military base called the Presidio to Sausalito, where all the cutesy
wine-country towns are with their scented candle shops and art
galleries. It's picturesque as hell, and it's practically the symbol
for the state of California. If you go to the Disneyland California
Adventure park, there's a replica of it just past the gates, with a
monorail running over it.

So naturally I assumed that if you were going to blow up a bridge in
San Francisco, that's the one you'd blow.

"They probably got scared off by all the cameras and stuff," Jolu said.
"The National Guard's always checking cars at both ends and there's all
those suicide fences and junk all along it." People have been jumping
off the Golden Gate since it opened in 1937 -- they stopped counting
after the thousandth suicide in 1995.

"Yeah," Vanessa said. "Plus the Bay Bridge actually goes somewhere."
The Bay Bridge goes from downtown San Francisco to Oakland and thence
to Berkeley, the East Bay townships that are home to many of the people
who live and work in town. It's one of the only parts of the Bay Area
where a normal person can afford a house big enough to really stretch
out in, and there's also the university and a bunch of light industry
over there. The BART goes under the Bay and connects the two cities,
too, but it's the Bay Bridge that sees most of the traffic. The Golden
Gate was a nice bridge if you were a tourist or a rich retiree living
out in wine country, but it was mostly ornamental. The Bay Bridge is --
was -- San Francisco's work-horse bridge.

I thought about it for a minute. "You guys are right," I said. "But I
don't think that's all of it. We keep acting like terrorists attack
landmarks because they hate landmarks. Terrorists don't hate landmarks
or bridges or airplanes. They just want to screw stuff up and make
people scared. To make terror. So of course they went after the Bay
Bridge after the Golden Gate got all those cameras -- after airplanes
got all metal-detectored and X-rayed." I thought about it some more,
staring blankly at the cars rolling down the street, at the people
walking down the sidewalks, at the city all around me. "Terrorists
don't hate airplanes or bridges. They love terror." It was so obvious I
couldn't believe I'd never thought of it before. I guess that being
treated like a terrorist for a few days was enough to clarify my
thinking.

The other two were staring at me. "I'm right, aren't I? All this crap,
all the X-rays and ID checks, they're all useless, aren't they?"

They nodded slowly.

"Worse than useless," I said, my voice going up and cracking. "Because
they ended up with us in prison, with Darryl --" I hadn't thought of
Darryl since we sat down and now it came back to me, my friend,
missing, disappeared. I stopped talking and ground my jaws together.

"We have to tell our parents," Jolu said.

"We should get a lawyer," Vanessa said.

I thought of telling my story. Of telling the world what had become of
me. Of the videos that would no doubt come out, of me weeping, reduced
to a groveling animal.

"We can't tell them anything," I said, without thinking.

"What do you mean?" Van said.

"We can't tell them anything," I repeated. "You heard her. If we talk,
they'll come back for us. They'll do to us what they did to Darryl."

"You're joking," Jolu said. "You want us to --"

"I want us to fight back," I said. "I want to stay free so that I can
do that. If we go out there and blab, they'll just say that we're kids,
making it up. We don't even know where we were held! No one will
believe us. Then, one day, they'll come for us.

"I'm telling my parents that I was in one of those camps on the other
side of the Bay. I came over to meet you guys there and we got
stranded, and just got loose today. They said in the papers that people
were still wandering home from them."

"I can't do that," Vanessa said. "After what they did to you, how can
you even think of doing that?"

"It happened to *me*, that's the point. This is me and them, now. I'll
beat them, I'll get Darryl. I'm not going to take this lying down. But
once our parents are involved, that's it for us. No one will believe us
and no one will care. If we do it my way, people will care."

"What's your way?" Jolu said. "What's your plan?"

"I don't know yet," I admitted. "Give me until tomorrow morning, give
me that, at least." I knew that once they'd kept it a secret for a day,
it would have to be a secret forever. Our parents would be even more
skeptical if we suddenly "remembered" that we'd been held in a secret
prison instead of taken care of in a refugee camp.

Van and Jolu looked at each other.

"I'm just asking for a chance," I said. "We'll work out the story on
the way, get it straight. Give me one day, just one day."

The other two nodded glumly and we set off downhill again, heading back
towards home. I lived on Potrero Hill, Vanessa lived in the North
Mission and Jolu lived in Noe Valley -- three wildly different
neighborhoods just a few minutes' walk from one another.

We turned onto Market Street and stopped dead. The street was
barricaded at every corner, the cross-streets reduced to a single lane,
and parked down the whole length of Market Street were big, nondescript
18-wheelers like the one that had carried us, hooded, away from the
ship's docks and to Chinatown.

Each one had three steel steps leading down from the back and they
buzzed with activity as soldiers, people in suits, and cops went in and
out of them. The suits wore little badges on their lapels and the
soldiers scanned them as they went in and out -- wireless authorization
badges. As we walked past one, I got a look at it, and saw the familiar
logo: Department of Homeland Security. The soldier saw me staring and
stared back hard, glaring at me.

I got the message and moved on. I peeled away from the gang at Van
Ness. We clung to each other and cried and promised to call each other.

The walk back to Potrero Hill has an easy route and a hard route, the
latter taking you over some of the steepest hills in the city, the kind
of thing that you see car chases on in action movies, with cars
catching air as they soar over the zenith. I always take the hard way
home. It's all residential streets, and the old Victorian houses they
call "painted ladies" for their gaudy, elaborate paint-jobs, and front
gardens with scented flowers and tall grasses. Housecats stare at you
from hedges, and there are hardly any homeless.

It was so quiet on those streets that it made me wish I'd taken the
*other* route, through the Mission, which is... *raucous* is probably
the best word for it. Loud and vibrant. Lots of rowdy drunks and angry
crack-heads and unconscious junkies, and also lots of families with
strollers, old ladies gossiping on stoops, lowriders with boom-cars
going thumpa-thumpa-thumpa down the streets. There were hipsters and
mopey emo art-students and even a couple old-school punk-rockers, old
guys with pot bellies bulging out beneath their Dead Kennedys shirts.
Also drag queens, angry gang kids, graffiti artists and bewildered
gentrifiers trying not to get killed while their real-estate
investments matured.

I went up Goat Hill and walked past Goat Hill Pizza, which made me
think of the jail I'd been held in, and I had to sit down on the bench
out front of the restaurant until my shakes passed. Then I noticed the
truck up the hill from me, a nondescript 18-wheeler with three metal
steps coming down from the back end. I got up and got moving. I felt
the eyes watching me from all directions.

I hurried the rest of the way home. I didn't look at the painted ladies
or the gardens or the housecats. I kept my eyes down.

Both my parents' cars were in the driveway, even though it was the
middle of the day. Of course. Dad works in the East Bay, so he'd be
stuck at home while they worked on the bridge. Mom -- well, who knew
why Mom was home.

They were home for me.

Even before I'd finished unlocking the door it had been jerked out of
my hand and flung wide. There were both of my parents, looking gray and
haggard, bug-eyed and staring at me. We stood there in frozen tableau
for a moment, then they both rushed forward and dragged me into the
house, nearly tripping me up. They were both talking so loud and fast
all I could hear was a wordless, roaring gabble and they both hugged me
and cried and I cried too and we just stood there like that in the
little foyer, crying and making almost-words until we ran out of steam
and went into the kitchen.

I did what I always did when I came home: got myself a glass of water
from the filter in the fridge and dug a couple cookies out of the
"biscuit barrel" that mom's sister had sent us from England. The
normalcy of this made my heart stop hammering, my heart catching up
with my brain, and soon we were all sitting at the table.

"Where have you been?" they both said, more or less in unison.

I had given this some thought on the way home. "I got trapped," I said.
"In Oakland. I was there with some friends, doing a project, and we
were all quarantined."

"For five days?"

"Yeah," I said. "Yeah. It was really bad." I'd read about the
quarantines in the Chronicle and I cribbed shamelessly from the quotes
they'd published. "Yeah. Everyone who got caught in the cloud. They
thought we had been attacked with some kind of super-bug and they
packed us into shipping containers in the docklands, like sardines. It
was really hot and sticky. Not much food, either."

"Christ," Dad said, his fists balling up on the table. Dad teaches in
Berkeley three days a week, working with a few grad students in the
library science program. The rest of the time he consults for clients
in city and down the Peninsula, third-wave dotcoms that are doing
various things with archives. He's a mild-mannered librarian by
profession, but he'd been a real radical in the sixties and wrestled a
little in high school. I'd seen him get crazy angry now and again --
I'd even made him that angry now and again -- and he could seriously
lose it when he was Hulking out. He once threw a swing-set from Ikea
across my granddad's whole lawn when it fell apart for the fiftieth
time while he was assembling it.

"Barbarians," Mom said. She's been living in America since she was a
teenager, but she still comes over all British when she encounters
American cops, health-care, airport security or homelessness. Then the
word is "barbarians," and her accent comes back strong. We'd been to
London twice to see her family and I can't say as it felt any more
civilized than San Francisco, just more cramped.

"But they let us go, and ferried us over today." I was improvising now.

"Are you hurt?" Mom said. "Hungry?"

"Sleepy?"

"Yeah, a little of all that. Also Dopey, Doc, Sneezy and Bashful." We
had a family tradition of Seven Dwarfs jokes. They both smiled a
little, but their eyes were still wet. I felt really bad for them. They
must have been out of their minds with worry. I was glad for a chance
to change the subject. "I'd totally love to eat."

"I'll order a pizza from Goat Hill," Dad said.

"No, not that," I said. They both looked at me like I'd sprouted
antennae. I normally have a thing about Goat Hill Pizza -- as in, I can
normally eat it like a goldfish eats his food, gobbling until it either
runs out or I pop. I tried to smile. "I just don't feel like pizza," I
said, lamely. "Let's order some curry, OK?" Thank heaven that San
Francisco is take-out central.

Mom went to the drawer of take-out menus (more normalcy, feeling like a
drink of water on a dry, sore throat) and riffled through them. We
spent a couple of distracting minutes going through the menu from the
halal Pakistani place on Valencia. I settled on a mixed tandoori grill
and creamed spinach with farmer's cheese, a salted mango lassi (much
better than it sounds) and little fried pastries in sugar syrup.

Once the food was ordered, the questions started again. They'd heard
from Van's, Jolu's and Darryl's families (of course) and had tried to
report us missing. The police were taking names, but there were so many
"displaced persons" that they weren't going to open files on anyone
unless they were still missing after seven days.

Meanwhile, millions of have-you-seen sites had popped up on the net. A
couple of the sites were old MySpace clones that had run out of money
and saw a new lease on life from all the attention. After all, some
venture capitalists had missing family in the Bay Area. Maybe if they
were recovered, the site would attract some new investment. I grabbed
dad's laptop and looked through them. They were plastered with
advertising, of course, and pictures of missing people, mostly grad
photos, wedding pictures and that sort of thing. It was pretty
ghoulish.

I found my pic and saw that it was linked to Van's, Jolu's, and
Darryl's. There was a little form for marking people found and another
one for writing up notes about other missing people. I filled in the
fields for me and Jolu and Van, and left Darryl blank.

"You forgot Darryl," Dad said. He didn't like Darryl much -- once he'd
figured out that a couple inches were missing out of one of the bottles
in his liquor cabinet, and to my enduring shame I'd blamed it on
Darryl. In truth, of course, it had been both of us, just fooling
around, trying out vodka-and-Cokes during an all-night gaming session.

"He wasn't with us," I said. The lie tasted bitter in my mouth.

"Oh my God," my mom said. She squeezed her hands together. "We just
assumed when you came home that you'd all been together."

"No," I said, the lie growing. "No, he was supposed to meet us but we
never met up. He's probably just stuck over in Berkeley. He was going
to take the BART over."

Mom made a whimpering sound. Dad shook his head and closed his eyes.
"Don't you know about the BART?" he said.

I shook my head. I could see where this was going. I felt like the
ground was rushing up to me.

"They blew it up," Dad said. "The bastards blew it up at the same time
as the bridge."

That hadn't been on the front page of the Chronicle, but then, a BART
blowout under the water wouldn't be nearly as picturesque as the images
of the bridge hanging in tatters and pieces over the Bay. The BART
tunnel from the Embarcadero in San Francisco to the West Oakland
station was submerged.

I went back to Dad's computer and surfed the headlines. No one was
sure, but the body count was in the thousands. Between the cars that
plummeted 191 feet to the sea and the people drowned in the trains, the
deaths were mounting. One reporter claimed to have interviewed an
"identity counterfeiter" who'd helped "dozens" of people walk away from
their old lives by simply vanishing after the attacks, getting new ID
made up, and slipping away from bad marriages, bad debts and bad lives.

Dad actually got tears in his eyes, and Mom was openly crying. They
each hugged me again, patting me with their hands as if to assure
themselves that I was really there. They kept telling me they loved me.
I told them I loved them too.

We had a weepy dinner and Mom and Dad had each had a couple glasses of
wine, which was a lot for them. I told them that I was getting sleepy,
which was true, and mooched up to my room. I wasn't going to bed,
though. I needed to get online and find out what was going on. I needed
to talk to Jolu and Vanessa. I needed to get working on finding Darryl.

I crept up to my room and opened the door. I hadn't seen my old bed in
what felt like a thousand years. I lay down on it and reached over to
my bedstand to grab my laptop. I must have not plugged it in all the
way -- the electrical adapter needed to be jiggled just right -- so it
had slowly discharged while I was away. I plugged it back in and gave
it a minute or two to charge up before trying to power it up again. I
used the time to get undressed and throw my clothes in the trash -- I
never wanted to see them again -- and put on a clean pair of boxers and
a fresh t-shirt. The fresh-laundered clothes, straight out of my
drawers, felt so familiar and comfortable, like getting hugged by my
parents.

I powered up my laptop and punched a bunch of pillows into place behind
me at the top of the bed. I scooched back and opened my computer's lid
and settled it onto my thighs. It was still booting, and man, those
icons creeping across the screen looked *good*. It came all the way up
and then it started giving me more low-power warnings. I checked the
power-cable again and wiggled it and they went away. The power-jack was
really flaking out.

In fact, it was so bad that I couldn't actually get anything done.
Every time I took my hand off the power-cable it lost contact and the
computer started to complain about its battery. I took a closer look at
it.

The whole case of my computer was slightly misaligned, the seam split
in an angular gape that started narrow and widened toward the back.

Sometimes you look at a piece of equipment and discover something like
this and you wonder, "Was it always like that?" Maybe you just never
noticed.

But with my laptop, that wasn't possible. You see, I built it. After
the Board of Ed issued us all with SchoolBooks, there was no way my
parents were going to buy me a computer of my own, even though
technically the SchoolBook didn't belong to me, and I wasn't supposed
to install software on it or mod it.

I had some money saved -- odd jobs, Christmases and birthdays, a little
bit of judicious ebaying. Put it all together and I had enough money to
buy a totally crappy, five-year-old machine.

So Darryl and I built one instead. You can buy laptop cases just like
you can buy cases for desktop PCs, though they're a little more
specialized than plain old PCs. I'd built a couple PCs with Darryl over
the years, scavenging parts from Craigslist and garage sales and
ordering stuff from cheap cheap Taiwanese vendors we found on the net.
I figured that building a laptop would be the best way to get the power
I wanted at the price I could afford.

To build your own laptop, you start by ordering a "barebook" -- a
machine with just a little hardware in it and all the right slots. The
good news was, once I was done, I had a machine that was a whole pound
lighter than the Dell I'd had my eye on, ran faster, and cost a third
of what I would have paid Dell. The bad news was that assembling a
laptop is like building one of those ships in a bottle. It's all
finicky work with tweezers and magnifying glasses, trying to get
everything to fit in that little case. Unlike a full-sized PC -- which
is mostly air -- every cubic millimeter of space in a laptop is spoken
for. Every time I thought I had it, I'd go to screw the thing back
together and find that something was keeping the case from closing all
the way, and it'd be back to the drawing board.

So I knew *exactly* how the seam on my laptop was supposed to look when
the thing was closed, and it was *not* supposed to look like this.

I kept jiggling the power-adapter, but it was hopeless. There was no
way I was going to get the thing to boot without taking it apart. I
groaned and put it beside the bed. I'd deal with it in the morning.



That was the theory, anyway. Two hours later, I was still staring at
the ceiling, playing back movies in my head of what they'd done to me,
what I should have done, all regrets and *esprit d'escalier.*

I rolled out of bed. It had gone midnight and I'd heard my parents hit
the sack at eleven. I grabbed the laptop and cleared some space on my
desk and clipped the little LED lamps to the temples of my magnifying
glasses and pulled out a set of little precision screwdrivers. A minute
later, I had the case open and the keyboard removed and I was staring
at the guts of my laptop. I got a can of compressed air and blew out
the dust that the fan had sucked in and looked things over.

Something wasn't right. I couldn't put my finger on it, but then it had
been months since I'd had the lid off this thing. Luckily, the third
time I'd had to open it up and struggle to close it again, I'd gotten
smart: I'd taken a photo of the guts with everything in place. I hadn't
been totally smart: at first, I'd just left that pic on my hard drive,
and naturally I couldn't get to it when I had the laptop in parts. But
then I'd printed it out and stuck it in my messy drawer of papers, the
dead-tree graveyard where I kept all the warranty cards and pin-out
diagrams. I shuffled them -- they seemed messier than I remembered --
and brought out my photo. I set it down next to the computer and kind
of unfocused my eyes, trying to find things that looked out of place.

Then I spotted it. The ribbon cable that connected the keyboard to the
logic-board wasn't connected right. That was a weird one. There was no
torque on that part, nothing to dislodge it in the course of normal
operations. I tried to press it back down again and discovered that the
plug wasn't just badly mounted -- there was something between it and
the board. I tweezed it out and shone my light on it.

There was something new in my keyboard. It was a little chunk of
hardware, only a sixteenth of an inch thick, with no markings. The
keyboard was plugged into it, and it was plugged into the board. It
other words, it was perfectly situated to capture all the keystrokes I
made while I typed on my machine.

It was a bug.

My heart thudded in my ears. It was dark and quiet in the house, but it
wasn't a comforting dark. There were eyes out there, eyes and ears, and
they were watching me. Surveilling me. The surveillance I faced at
school had followed me home, but this time, it wasn't just the Board of
Education looking over my shoulder: the Department of Homeland Security
had joined them.

I almost took the bug out. Then I figured that who ever put it there
would know that it was gone. I left it in. It made me sick to do it.

I looked around for more tampering. I couldn't find any, but did that
mean there hadn't been any? Someone had broken into my room and planted
this device -- had disassembled my laptop and reassembled it. There
were lots of other ways to wiretap a computer. I could never find them
all.

I put the machine together with numb fingers. This time, the case
wouldn't snap shut just right, but the power-cable stayed in. I booted
it up and set my fingers on the keyboard, thinking that I would run
some diagnostics and see what was what.

But I couldn't do it.

Hell, maybe my room was wiretapped. Maybe there was a camera spying on
me now.

I'd been feeling paranoid when I got home. Now I was nearly out of my
skin. It felt like I was back in jail, back in the interrogation room,
stalked by entities who had me utterly in their power. It made me want
to cry.

Only one thing for it.

I went into the bathroom and took off the toilet-paper roll and
replaced it with a fresh one. Luckily, it was almost empty already. I
unrolled the rest of the paper and dug through my parts box until I
found a little plastic envelope full of ultra-bright white LEDs I'd
scavenged out of a dead bike-lamp. I punched their leads through the
cardboard tube carefully, using a pin to make the holes, then got out
some wire and connected them all in series with little metal clips. I
twisted the wires into the leads for a nine-volt battery and connected
the battery. Now I had a tube ringed with ultra-bright, directional
LEDs, and I could hold it up to my eye and look through it.

I'd built one of these last year as a science fair project and had been
thrown out of the fair once I showed that there were hidden cameras in
half the classrooms at Chavez High. Pinhead video-cameras cost less
than a good restaurant dinner these days, so they're showing up
everywhere. Sneaky store clerks put them in changing rooms or tanning
salons and get pervy with the hidden footage they get from their
customers -- sometimes they just put it on the net. Knowing how to turn
a toilet-paper roll and three bucks' worth of parts into a
camera-detector is just good sense.

This is the simplest way to catch a spy-cam. They have tiny lenses, but
they reflect light like the dickens. It works best in a dim room: stare
through the tube and slowly scan all the walls and other places someone
might have put a camera until you see the glint of a reflection. If the
reflection stays still as you move around, that's a lens.

There wasn't a camera in my room -- not one I could detect, anyway.
There might have been audio bugs, of course. Or better cameras. Or
nothing at all. Can you blame me for feeling paranoid?

I loved that laptop. I called it the Salmagundi, which means anything
made out of spare parts.

Once you get to naming your laptop, you know that you're really having
a deep relationship with it. Now, though, I felt like I didn't want to
ever touch it again. I wanted to throw it out the window. Who knew what
they'd done to it? Who knew how it had been tapped?

I put it in a drawer with the lid shut and looked at the ceiling. It
was late and I should be in bed. There was no way I was going to sleep
now, though. I was tapped. Everyone might be tapped. The world had
changed forever.

"I'll find a way to get them," I said. It was a vow, I knew it when I
heard it, though I'd never made a vow before.

I couldn't sleep after that. And besides, I had an idea.

Somewhere in my closet was a shrink-wrapped box containing one
still-sealed, mint-in-package Xbox Universal. Every Xbox has been sold
way below cost -- Microsoft makes most of its money charging games
companies money for the right to put out Xbox games -- but the
Universal was the first Xbox that Microsoft decided to give away
entirely for free.

Last Christmas season, there'd been poor losers on every corner dressed
as warriors from the Halo series, handing out bags of these
game-machines as fast as they could. I guess it worked -- everyone says
they sold a whole butt-load of games. Naturally, there were
countermeasures to make sure you only played games from companies that
had bought licenses from Microsoft to make them.

Hackers blow through those countermeasures. The Xbox was cracked by a
kid from MIT who wrote a best-selling book about it, and then the 360
went down, and then the short-lived Xbox Portable (which we all called
the "luggable" -- it weighed three pounds!) succumbed. The Universal
was supposed to be totally bulletproof. The high school kids who broke
it were Brazilian Linux hackers who lived in a *favela* -- a kind of
squatter's slum.

Never underestimate the determination of a kid who is time-rich and
cash-poor.

Once the Brazilians published their crack, we all went nuts on it. Soon
there were dozens of alternate operating systems for the Xbox
Universal. My favorite was ParanoidXbox, a flavor of Paranoid Linux.
Paranoid Linux is an operating system that assumes that its operator is
under assault from the government (it was intended for use by Chinese
and Syrian dissidents), and it does everything it can to keep your
communications and documents a secret. It even throws up a bunch of
"chaff" communications that are supposed to disguise the fact that
you're doing anything covert. So while you're receiving a political
message one character at a time, ParanoidLinux is pretending to surf
the Web and fill in questionnaires and flirt in chat-rooms. Meanwhile,
one in every five hundred characters you receive is your real message,
a needle buried in a huge haystack.

I'd burned a ParanoidXbox DVD when they first appeared, but I'd never
gotten around to unpacking the Xbox in my closet, finding a TV to hook
it up to and so on. My room is crowded enough as it is without letting
Microsoft crashware eat up valuable workspace.

Tonight, I'd make the sacrifice. It took about twenty minutes to get up
and running. Not having a TV was the hardest part, but eventually I
remembered that I had a little overhead LCD projector that had standard
TV RCA connectors on the back. I connected it to the Xbox and shone it
on the back of my door and got ParanoidLinux installed.

Now I was up and running, and ParanoidLinux was looking for other Xbox
Universals to talk to. Every Xbox Universal comes with built-in
wireless for multiplayer gaming. You can connect to your neighbors on
the wireless link and to the Internet, if you have a wireless Internet
connection. I found three different sets of neighbors in range. Two of
them had their Xbox Universals also connected to the Internet.
ParanoidXbox loved that configuration: it could siphon off some of my
neighbors' Internet connections and use them to get online through the
gaming network. The neighbors would never miss the packets: they were
paying for flat-rate Internet connections, and they weren't exactly
doing a lot of surfing at 2AM.

The best part of all this is how it made me *feel*: in control. My
technology was working for me, serving me, protecting me. It wasn't
spying on me. This is why I loved technology: if you used it right, it
could give you power and privacy.

My brain was really going now, running like 60. There were lots of
reasons to run ParanoidXbox -- the best one was that anyone could write
games for it. Already there was a port of MAME, the Multiple Arcade
Machine Emulator, so you could play practically any game that had ever
been written, all the way back to Pong -- games for the Apple ][+ and
games for the Colecovision, games for the NES and the Dreamcast, and so
on.

Even better were all the cool multiplayer games being built
specifically for ParanoidXbox -- totally free hobbyist games that
anyone could run. When you combined it all, you had a free console full
of free games that could get you free Internet access.

And the best part -- as far as I was concerned -- was that ParanoidXbox
was *paranoid*. Every bit that went over the air was scrambled to
within an inch of its life. You could wiretap it all you wanted, but
you'd never figure out who was talking, what they were talking about,
or who they were talking to. Anonymous web, email and IM. Just what I
needed.

All I had to do now was convince everyone I knew to use it too.

&&&

Chapter 6

[[This chapter is dedicated to Powell's Books, the legendary "City of
Books" in Portland, Oregon. Powell's is the largest bookstore in the
world, an endless, multi-storey universe of papery smells and towering
shelves. They stock new and used books on the same shelves -- something
I've always loved -- and every time I've stopped in, they've had a
veritable mountain of my books, and they've been incredibly gracious
about asking me to sign the store-stock. The clerks are friendly, the
stock is fabulous, and there's even a Powell's at the Portland airport,
making it just about the best airport bookstore in the world for my
money!]]

[[Powell's Books:
http://www.powells.com/cgi-bin/biblio?isbn=9780765319852 1005 W
Burnside, Portland, OR 97209 USA +1 800 878 7323]]

Believe it or not, my parents made me go to school the next day. I'd
only fallen into feverish sleep at three in the morning, but at seven
the next day, my Dad was standing at the foot of my bed, threatening to
drag me out by the ankles. I managed to get up -- something had died in
my mouth after painting my eyelids shut -- and into the shower.

I let my mom force a piece of toast and a banana into me, wishing
fervently that my parents would let me drink coffee at home. I could
sneak one on the way to school, but watching them sip down their black
gold while I was drag-assing around the house, getting dressed and
putting my books in my bag -- it was awful.

I've walked to school a thousand times, but today it was different. I
went up and over the hills to get down into the Mission, and everywhere
there were trucks. I saw new sensors and traffic cameras installed at
many of the stop-signs. Someone had a lot of surveillance gear lying
around, waiting to be installed at the first opportunity. The attack on
the Bay Bridge had been just what they needed.

It all made the city seem more subdued, like being inside an elevator,
embarrassed by the close scrutiny of your neighbors and the ubiquitous
cameras.

The Turkish coffee shop on 24th Street fixed me up good with a go-cup
of Turkish coffee. Basically, Turkish coffee is mud, pretending to be
coffee. It's thick enough to stand a spoon up in, and it has way more
caffeine than the kiddee-pops like Red Bull. Take it from someone who's
read the Wikipedia entry: this is how the Ottoman Empire was won:
maddened horsemen fueled by lethal jet-black coffee-mud.

I pulled out my debit card to pay and he made a face. "No more debit,"
he said.

"Huh? Why not?" I'd paid for my coffee habit on my card for years at
the Turk's. He used to hassle me all the time, telling me I was too
young to drink the stuff, and he still refused to serve me at all
during school hours, convinced that I was skipping class. But over the
years, the Turk and me have developed a kind of gruff understanding.

He shook his head sadly. "You wouldn't understand. Go to school, kid."

There's no surer way to make me want to understand than to tell me I
won't. I wheedled him, demanding that he tell me. He looked like he was
going to throw me out, but when I asked him if he thought I wasn't good
enough to shop there, he opened up.

"The security," he said, looking around his little shop with its tubs
of dried beans and seeds, its shelves of Turkish groceries. "The
government. They monitor it all now, it was in the papers. PATRIOT Act
II, the Congress passed it yesterday. Now they can monitor every time
you use your card. I say no. I say my shop will not help them spy on my
customers."

My jaw dropped.

"You think it's no big deal maybe? What is the problem with government
knowing when you buy coffee? Because it's one way they know where you
are, where you been. Why you think I left Turkey? Where you have
government always spying on the people, is no good. I move here twenty
years ago for freedom -- I no help them take freedom away."

"You're going to lose so many sales," I blurted. I wanted to tell him
he was a hero and shake his hand, but that was what came out. "Everyone
uses debit cards."

"Maybe not so much anymore. Maybe my customers come here because they
know I love freedom too. I am making sign for window. Maybe other
stores do the same. I hear the ACLU will sue them for this."

"You've got all my business from now on," I said. I meant it. I reached
into my pocket. "Um, I don't have any cash, though."

He pursed his lips and nodded. "Many peoples say the same thing. Is OK.
You give today's money to the ACLU."

In two minutes, the Turk and I had exchanged more words than we had in
all the time I'd been coming to his shop. I had no idea he had all
these passions. I just thought of him as my friendly neighborhood
caffeine dealer. Now I shook his hand and when I left his store, I felt
like he and I had joined a team. A secret team.



I'd missed two days of school but it seemed like I hadn't missed much
class. They'd shut the school on one of those days while the city
scrambled to recover. The next day had been devoted, it seemed, to
mourning those missing and presumed dead. The newspapers published
biographies of the lost, personal memorials. The Web was filled with
these capsule obituaries, thousands of them.

Embarrassingly, I was one of those people. I stepped into the
schoolyard, not knowing this, and then there was a shout and a moment
later there were a hundred people around me, pounding me on the back,
shaking my hand. A couple girls I didn't even know kissed me, and they
were more than friendly kisses. I felt like a rock star.

My teachers were only a little more subdued. Ms Galvez cried as much as
my mother had and hugged me three times before she let me go to my desk
and sit down. There was something new at the front of the classroom. A
camera. Ms Galvez caught me staring at it and handed me a permission
slip on smeary Xeroxed school letterhead.

The Board of the San Francisco Unified School District had held an
emergency session over the weekend and unanimously voted to ask the
parents of every kid in the city for permission to put closed circuit
television cameras in every classroom and corridor. The law said they
couldn't force us to go to school with cameras all over the place, but
it didn't say anything about us *volunteering* to give up our
Constitutional rights. The letter said that the Board were sure that
they would get complete compliance from the City's parents, but that
they would make arrangements to teach those kids' whose parents
objected in a separate set of "unprotected" classrooms.

Why did we have cameras in our classrooms now? Terrorists. Of course.
Because by blowing up a bridge, terrorists had indicated that schools
were next. Somehow that was the conclusion that the Board had reached
anyway.

I read this note three times and then I stuck my hand up.

"Yes, Marcus?"

"Ms Galvez, about this note?"

"Yes, Marcus."

"Isn't the point of terrorism to make us afraid? That's why it's called
*terror*ism, right?"

"I suppose so." The class was staring at me. I wasn't the best student
in school, but I did like a good in-class debate. They were waiting to
hear what I'd say next.

"So aren't we doing what the terrorists want from us? Don't they win if
we act all afraid and put cameras in the classrooms and all of that?"

There was some nervous tittering. One of the others put his hand up. It
was Charles. Ms Galvez called on him.

"Putting cameras in makes us safe, which makes us less afraid."

"Safe from what?" I said, without waiting to be called on.

"Terrorism," Charles said. The others were nodding their heads.

"How do they do that? If a suicide bomber rushed in here and blew us
all up --"

"Ms Galvez, Marcus is violating school policy. We're not supposed to
make jokes about terrorist attacks --"

"Who's making jokes?"

"Thank you, both of you," Ms Galvez said. She looked really unhappy. I
felt kind of bad for hijacking her class. "I think that this is a
really interesting discussion, but I'd like to hold it over for a
future class. I think that these issues may be too emotional for us to
have a discussion about them today. Now, let's get back to the
suffragists, shall we?"

So we spent the rest of the hour talking about suffragists and the new
lobbying strategies they'd devised for getting four women into every
congresscritter's office to lean on him and let him know what it would
mean for his political future if he kept on denying women the vote. It
was normally the kind of thing I really liked -- little guys making the
big and powerful be honest. But today I couldn't concentrate. It must
have been Darryl's absence. We both liked Social Studies and we would
have had our SchoolBooks out and an IM session up seconds after sitting
down, a back-channel for talking about the lesson.

I'd burned twenty ParanoidXbox discs the night before and I had them
all in my bag. I handed them out to people I knew were really, really
into gaming. They'd all gotten an Xbox Universal or two the year
before, but most of them had stopped using them. The games were really
expensive and not a lot of fun. I took them aside between periods, at
lunch and study hall, and sang the praises of the ParanoidXbox games to
the sky. Free and fun -- addictive social games with lots of cool
people playing them from all over the world.

Giving away one thing to sell another is what they call a "razor blade
business" -- companies like Gillette give you free razor-blade handles
and then stiff you by charging you a small fortune for the blades.
Printer cartridges are the worst for that -- the most expensive
Champagne in the world is cheap when compared with inkjet ink, which
costs all of a penny a gallon to make wholesale.

Razor-blade businesses depend on you not being able to get the "blades"
from someone else. After all, if Gillette can make nine bucks on a
ten-dollar replacement blade, why not start a competitor that makes
only four bucks selling an identical blade: an 80 percent profit margin
is the kind of thing that makes your average business-guy go all drooly
and round-eyed.

So razor-blade companies like Microsoft pour a lot of effort into
making it hard and/or illegal to compete with them on the blades. In
Microsoft's case, every Xbox has had countermeasures to keep you from
running software that was released by people who didn't pay the
Microsoft blood-money for the right to sell Xbox programs.

The people I met didn't think much about this stuff. They perked up
when I told them that the games were unmonitored. These days, any
online game you play is filled with all kinds of unsavory sorts. First
there are the pervs who try to get you to come out to some remote
location so they can go all weird and Silence of the Lambs on you. Then
there are the cops, who are pretending to be gullible kids so they can
bust the pervs. Worst of all, though, are the monitors who spend all
their time spying on our discussions and snitching on us for violating
their Terms of Service, which say, no flirting, no cussing, and no
"clear or masked language which insultingly refers to any aspect of
sexual orientation or sexuality."

I'm no 24/7 horn-dog, but I'm a seventeen year old boy. Sex does come
up in conversation every now and again. But God help you if it came up
in chat while you were gaming. It was a real buzz-kill. No one
monitored the ParanoidXbox games, because they weren't run by a
company: they were just games that hackers had written for the hell of
it.

So these game-kids loved the story. They took the discs greedily, and
promised to burn copies for all of their friends -- after all, games
are most fun when you're playing them with your buddies.

When I got home, I read that a group of parents were suing the school
board over the surveillance cameras in the classrooms, but that they'd
already lost their bid to get a preliminary injunction against them.



I don't know who came up with the name Xnet, but it stuck. You'd hear
people talking about it on the Muni. Van called me up to ask me if I'd
heard of it and I nearly choked once I figured out what she was talking
about: the discs I'd started distributing last week had been
sneakernetted and copied all the way to Oakland in the space of two
weeks. It made me look over my shoulder -- like I'd broken a rule and
now the DHS would come and take me away forever.

They'd been hard weeks. The BART had completely abandoned cash fares
now, switching them for arphid "contactless" cards that you waved at
the turnstiles to go through. They were cool and convenient, but every
time I used one, I thought about how I was being tracked. Someone on
Xnet posted a link to an Electronic Frontier Foundation white paper on
the ways that these things could be used to track people, and the paper
had tiny stories about little groups of people that had protested at
the BART stations.

I used the Xnet for almost everything now. I'd set up a fake email
address through the Pirate Party, a Swedish political party that hated
Internet surveillance and promised to keep their mail accounts a secret
from everyone, even the cops. I accessed it strictly via Xnet, hopping
from one neighbor's Internet connection to the next, staying anonymous
-- I hoped -- all the way to Sweden. I wasn't using w1n5ton anymore. If
Benson could figure it out, anyone could. My new handle, come up with
on the spur of the moment, was M1k3y, and I got a *lot* of email from
people who heard in chat rooms and message boards that I could help
them troubleshoot their Xnet configurations and connections.

I missed Harajuku Fun Madness. The company had suspended the game
indefinitely. They said that for "security reasons" they didn't think
it would be a good idea to hide things and then send people off to find
them. What if someone thought it was a bomb? What if someone put a bomb
in the same spot?

What if I got hit by lightning while walking with an umbrella? Ban
umbrellas! Fight the menace of lightning!

I kept on using my laptop, though I got a skin-crawly feeling when I
used it. Whoever had wiretapped it would wonder why I didn't use it. I
figured I'd just do some random surfing with it every day, a little
less each day, so that anyone watching would see me slowly changing my
habits, not doing a sudden reversal. Mostly I read those creepy obits
-- all those thousands of my friends and neighbors dead at the bottom
of the Bay.

Truth be told, I *was* doing less and less homework every day. I had
business elsewhere. I burned new stacks of ParanoidXbox every day,
fifty or sixty, and took them around the city to people I'd heard were
willing to burn sixty of their own and hand them out to their friends.

I wasn't too worried about getting caught doing this, because I had
good crypto on my side. Crypto is cryptography, or "secret writing,"
and it's been around since Roman times (literally: Augustus Caesar was
a big fan and liked to invent his own codes, some of which we use today
for scrambling joke punchlines in email).

Crypto is math. Hard math. I'm not going to try to explain it in detail
because I don't have the math to really get my head around it, either
-- look it up on Wikipedia if you really want.

But here's the Cliff's Notes version: Some kinds of mathematical
functions are really easy to do in one direction and really hard to do
in the other direction. It's easy to multiply two big prime numbers
together and make a giant number. It's really, really hard to take any
given giant number and figure out which primes multiply together to
give you that number.

That means that if you can come up with a way of scrambling something
based on multiplying large primes, unscrambling it without knowing
those primes will be hard. Wicked hard. Like, a trillion years of all
the computers ever invented working 24/7 won't be able to do it.

There are four parts to any crypto message: the original message,
called the "cleartext." The scrambled message, called the "ciphertext."
The scrambling system, called the "cipher." And finally there's the
key: secret stuff you feed into the cipher along with the cleartext to
make ciphertext.

It used to be that crypto people tried to keep all of this a secret.
Every agency and government had its own ciphers *and* its own keys. The
Nazis and the Allies didn't want the other guys to know how they
scrambled their messages, let alone the keys that they could use to
descramble them. That sounds like a good idea, right?

Wrong.

The first time anyone told me about all this prime factoring stuff, I
immediately said, "No way, that's BS. I mean, *sure* it's hard to do
this prime factorization stuff, whatever you say it is. But it used to
be impossible to fly or go to the moon or get a hard-drive with more
than a few kilobytes of storage. Someone *must* have invented a way of
descrambling the messages." I had visions of a hollow mountain full of
National Security Agency mathematicians reading every email in the
world and snickering.

In fact, that's pretty much what happened during World War II. That's
the reason that life isn't more like Castle Wolfenstein, where I've
spent many days hunting Nazis.

The thing is, ciphers are hard to keep secret. There's a lot of math
that goes into one, and if they're widely used, then everyone who uses
them has to keep them a secret too, and if someone changes sides, you
have to find a new cipher.

The Nazi cipher was called Enigma, and they used a little mechanical
computer called an Enigma Machine to scramble and unscramble the
messages they got. Every sub and boat and station needed one of these,
so it was inevitable that eventually the Allies would get their hands
on one.

When they did, they cracked it. That work was led by my personal
all-time hero, a guy named Alan Turing, who pretty much invented
computers as we know them today. Unfortunately for him, he was gay, so
after the war ended, the stupid British government forced him to get
shot up with hormones to "cure" his homosexuality and he killed
himself. Darryl gave me a biography of Turing for my 14th birthday --
wrapped in twenty layers of paper and in a recycled Batmobile toy, he
was like that with presents -- and I've been a Turing junkie ever
since.

Now the Allies had the Enigma Machine, and they could intercept lots of
Nazi radio-messages, which shouldn't have been that big a deal, since
every captain had his own secret key. Since the Allies didn't have the
keys, having the machine shouldn't have helped.

Here's where secrecy hurts crypto. The Enigma cipher was flawed. Once
Turing looked hard at it, he figured out that the Nazi cryptographers
had made a mathematical mistake. By getting his hands on an Enigma
Machine, Turing could figure out how to crack *any* Nazi message, no
matter what key it used.

That cost the Nazis the war. I mean, don't get me wrong. That's good
news. Take it from a Castle Wolfenstein veteran. You wouldn't want the
Nazis running the country.

After the war, cryptographers spent a lot of time thinking about this.
The problem had been that Turing was smarter than the guy who thought
up Enigma. Any time you had a cipher, you were vulnerable to someone
smarter than you coming up with a way of breaking it.

And the more they thought about it, the more they realized that
*anyone* can come up with a security system that he can't figure out
how to break. But *no one* can figure out what a smarter person might
do.

You have to publish a cipher to know that it works. You have to tell
*as many people as possible* how it works, so that they can thwack on
it with everything they have, testing its security. The longer you go
without anyone finding a flaw, the more secure you are.

Which is how it stands today. If you want to be safe, you don't use
crypto that some genius thought of last week. You use the stuff that
people have been using for as long as possible without anyone figuring
out how to break them. Whether you're a bank, a terrorist, a government
or a teenager, you use the same ciphers.

If you tried to use your own cipher, there'd be the chance that someone
out there had found a flaw you missed and was doing a Turing on your
butt, deciphering all your "secret" messages and chuckling at your dumb
gossip, financial transactions and military secrets.

So I knew that crypto would keep me safe from eavesdroppers, but I
wasn't ready to deal with histograms.



I got off the BART and waved my card over the turnstile as I headed up
to the 24th Street station. As usual, there were lots of weirdos
hanging out in the station, drunks and Jesus freaks and intense Mexican
men staring at the ground and a few gang kids. I looked straight past
them as I hit the stairs and jogged up to the surface. My bag was empty
now, no longer bulging with the ParanoidXbox discs I'd been
distributing, and it made my shoulders feel light and put a spring in
my step as I came up the street. The preachers were at work still,
exhorting in Spanish and English about Jesus and so on.

The counterfeit sunglass sellers were gone, but they'd been replaced by
guys selling robot dogs that barked the national anthem and would lift
their legs if you showed them a picture of Osama bin Laden. There was
probably some cool stuff going on in their little brains and I made a
mental note to pick a couple of them up and take them apart later.
Face-recognition was pretty new in toys, having only recently made the
leap from the military to casinos trying to find cheats, to law
enforcement.

I started down 24th Street toward Potrero Hill and home, rolling my
shoulders and smelling the burrito smells wafting out of the
restaurants and thinking about dinner.

I don't know why I happened to glance back over my shoulder, but I did.
Maybe it was a little bit of subconscious sixth-sense stuff. I knew I
was being followed.

They were two beefy white guys with little mustaches that made me think
of either cops or the gay bikers who rode up and down the Castro, but
gay guys usually had better haircuts. They had on windbreakers the
color of old cement and blue-jeans, with their waistbands concealed. I
thought of all the things a cop might wear on his waistband, of the
utility-belt that DHS guy in the truck had worn. Both guys were wearing
Bluetooth headsets.

I kept walking, my heart thumping in my chest. I'd been expecting this
since I started. I'd been expecting the DHS to figure out what I was
doing. I took every precaution, but Severe-Haircut woman had told me
that she'd be watching me. She'd told me I was a marked man. I realized
that I'd been waiting to get picked up and taken back to jail. Why not?
Why should Darryl be in jail and not me? What did I have going for me?
I hadn't even had the guts to tell my parents -- or his -- what had
really happened to us.

I quickened my steps and took a mental inventory. I didn't have
anything incriminating in my bag. Not too incriminating, anyway. My
SchoolBook was running the crack that let me IM and stuff, but half the
people in school had that. I'd changed the way I encrypted the stuff on
my phone -- now I *did* have a fake partition that I could turn back
into cleartext with one password, but all the good stuff was hidden,
and needed another password to open up. That hidden section looked just
like random junk -- when you encrypt data, it becomes indistinguishable
from random noise -- and they'd never even know it was there.

There were no discs in my bag. My laptop was free of incriminating
evidence. Of course, if they thought to look hard at my Xbox, it was
game over. So to speak.

I stopped where I was standing. I'd done as good a job as I could of
covering myself. It was time to face my fate. I stepped into the
nearest burrito joint and ordered one with carnitas -- shredded pork --
and extra salsa. Might as well go down with a full stomach. I got a
bucket of horchata, too, an ice-cold rice drink that's like watery,
semi-sweet rice-pudding (better than it sounds).

I sat down to eat, and a profound calm fell over me. I was about to go
to jail for my "crimes," or I wasn't. My freedom since they'd taken me
in had been just a temporary holiday. My country was not my friend
anymore: we were now on different sides and I'd known I could never
win.

The two guys came into the restaurant as I was finishing the burrito
and going up to order some churros -- deep-fried dough with cinnamon
sugar -- for dessert. I guess they'd been waiting outside and got tired
of my dawdling.

They stood behind me at the counter, boxing me in. I took my churro
from the pretty granny and paid her, taking a couple of quick bites of
the dough before I turned around. I wanted to eat at least a little of
my dessert. It might be the last dessert I got for a long, long time.

Then I turned around. They were both so close I could see the zit on
the cheek of the one on the left, the little booger up the nose of the
other.

"'Scuse me," I said, trying to push past them. The one with the booger
moved to block me.

"Sir," he said, "can you step over here with us?" He gestured toward
the restaurant's door.

"Sorry, I'm eating," I said and moved again. This time he put his hand
on my chest. He was breathing fast through his nose, making the booger
wiggle. I think I was breathing hard too, but it was hard to tell over
the hammering of my heart.

The other one flipped down a flap on the front of his windbreaker to
reveal a SFPD insignia. "Police," he said. "Please come with us."

"Let me just get my stuff," I said.

"We'll take care of that," he said. The booger one stepped right up
close to me, his foot on the inside of mine. You do that in some
martial arts, too. It lets you feel if the other guy is shifting his
weight, getting ready to move.

I wasn't going to run, though. I knew I couldn't outrun fate.

&&&

Chapter 7

[[This chapter is dedicated to New York City's Books of Wonder, the
oldest and largest kids' bookstore in Manhattan. They're located just a
few blocks away from Tor Books' offices in the Flatiron Building and
every time I drop in to meet with the Tor people, I always sneak away
to Books of Wonder to peruse their stock of new, used and rare kids'
books. I'm a heavy collector of rare editions of Alice in Wonderland,
and Books of Wonder never fails to excite me with some beautiful,
limited-edition Alice. They have tons of events for kids and one of the
most inviting atmospheres I've ever experienced at a bookstore.]]

[[Books of Wonder http://www.booksofwonder.com/ 18 West 18th St, New
York, NY 10011 USA +1 212 989 3270]]

They took me outside and around the corner, to a waiting unmarked
police car. It wasn't like anyone in that neighborhood would have had a
hard time figuring out that it was a cop-car, though. Only police drive
big Crown Victorias now that gas had hit seven bucks a gallon. What's
more, only cops could double-park in the middle of Van Ness street
without getting towed by the schools of predatory tow-operators that
circled endlessly, ready to enforce San Francisco's incomprehensible
parking regulations and collect a bounty for kidnapping your car.

Booger blew his nose. I was sitting in the back seat, and so was he.
His partner was sitting in the front, typing with one finger on an
ancient, ruggedized laptop that looked like Fred Flintstone had been
its original owner.

Booger looked closely at my ID again. "We just want to ask you a few
routine questions."

"Can I see your badges?" I said. These guys were clearly cops, but it
couldn't hurt to let them know I knew my rights.

Booger flashed his badge at me too fast for me to get a good look at
it, but Zit in the front seat gave me a long look at his. I got their
division number and memorized the four-digit badge number. It was easy:
1337 is also the way hackers write "leet," or "elite."

They were both being very polite and neither of them was trying to
intimidate me the way that the DHS had done when I was in their
custody.

"Am I under arrest?"

"You've been momentarily detained so that we can ensure your safety and
the general public safety," Booger said.

He passed my driver's license up to Zit, who pecked it slowly into his
computer. I saw him make a typo and almost corrected him, but figured
it was better to just keep my mouth shut.

"Is there anything you want to tell me, Marcus? Do they call you Marc?"

"Marcus is fine," I said. Booger looked like he might be a nice guy.
Except for the part about kidnapping me into his car, of course.

"Marcus. Anything you want to tell me?"

"Like what? Am I under arrest?"

"You're not under arrest right now," Booger said. "Would you like to
be?"

"No," I said.

"Good. We've been watching you since you left the BART. Your Fast Pass
says that you've been riding to a lot of strange places at a lot of
funny hours."

I felt something let go inside my chest. This wasn't about the Xnet at
all, then, not really. They'd been watching my subway use and wanted to
know why it had been so freaky lately. How totally stupid.

"So you guys follow everyone who comes out of the BART station with a
funny ride-history? You must be busy."

"Not everyone, Marcus. We get an alert when anyone with an uncommon
ride profile comes out and that helps us assess whether we want to
investigate. In your case, we came along because we wanted to know why
a smart-looking kid like you had such a funny ride profile?"

Now that I knew I wasn't about to go to jail, I was getting pissed.
These guys had no business spying on me -- Christ, the BART had no
business *helping* them to spy on me. Where the hell did my subway pass
get off on finking me out for having a "nonstandard ride pattern?"

"I think I'd like to be arrested now," I said.

Booger sat back and raised his eyebrow at me.

"Really? On what charge?"

"Oh, you mean riding public transit in a nonstandard way isn't a
crime?"

Zit closed his eyes and scrubbed them with his thumbs.

Booger sighed a put-upon sigh. "Look, Marcus, we're on your side here.
We use this system to catch bad guys. To catch terrorists and drug
dealers. Maybe you're a drug dealer yourself. Pretty good way to get
around the city, a Fast Pass. Anonymous."

"What's wrong with anonymous? It was good enough for Thomas Jefferson.
And by the way, am I under arrest?"

"Let's take him home," Zit said. "We can talk to his parents."

"I think that's a great idea," I said. "I'm sure my parents will be
anxious to hear how their tax dollars are being spent --"

I'd pushed it too far. Booger had been reaching for the door handle but
now he whirled on me, all Hulked out and throbbing veins. "Why don't
you shut up right now, while it's still an option? After everything
that's happened in the past two weeks, it wouldn't kill you to
cooperate with us. You know what, maybe we *should* arrest you. You can
spend a day or two in jail while your lawyer looks for you. A lot can
happen in that time. A *lot*. How'd you like that?"

I didn't say anything. I'd been giddy and angry. Now I was scared
witless.

"I'm sorry," I managed, hating myself again for saying it.

Booger got in the front seat and Zit put the car in gear, cruising up
24th Street and over Potrero Hill. They had my address from my ID.

Mom answered the door after they rang the bell, leaving the chain on.
She peeked around it, saw me and said, "Marcus? Who are these men?"

"Police," Booger said. He showed her his badge, letting her get a good
look at it -- not whipping it away the way he had with me. "Can we come
in?"

Mom closed the door and took the chain off and let them in. They
brought me in and Mom gave the three of us one of her looks.

"What's this about?"

Booger pointed at me. "We wanted to ask your son some routine questions
about his movements, but he declined to answer them. We felt it might
be best to bring him here."

"Is he under arrest?" Mom's accent was coming on strong. Good old Mom.

"Are you a United States citizen, ma'am?" Zit said.

She gave him a look that could have stripped paint. "I shore am,
hyuck," she said, in a broad southern accent. "Am *I* under arrest?"

The two cops exchanged a look.

Zit took the fore. "We seem to have gotten off to a bad start. We
identified your son as someone with a nonstandard public transit usage
pattern, as part of a new pro-active enforcement program. When we spot
people whose travels are unusual, or that match a suspicious profile,
we investigate further."

"Wait," Mom said. "How do you know how my son uses the Muni?"

"The Fast Pass," he said. "It tracks voyages."

"I see," Mom said, folding her arms. Folding her arms was a bad sign.
It was bad enough she hadn't offered them a cup of tea -- in Mom-land,
that was practically like making them shout through the mail-slot --
but once she folded her arms, it was not going to end well for them. At
that moment, I wanted to go and buy her a big bunch of flowers.

"Marcus here declined to tell us why his movements had been what they
were."

"Are you saying you think my son is a terrorist because of how he rides
the bus?"

"Terrorists aren't the only bad guys we catch this way," Zit said.
"Drug dealers. Gang kids. Even shoplifters smart enough to hit a
different neighborhood with every run."

"You think my son is a drug dealer?"

"We're not saying that --" Zit began. Mom clapped her hands at him to
shut him up.

"Marcus, please pass me your backpack."

I did.

Mom unzipped it and looked through it, turning her back to us first.

"Officers, I can now affirm that there are no narcotics, explosives, or
shoplifted gewgaws in my son's bag. I think we're done here. I would
like your badge numbers before you go, please."

Booger sneered at her. "Lady, the ACLU is suing three hundred cops on
the SFPD, you're going to have to get in line."



Mom made me a cup of tea and then chewed me out for eating dinner when
I knew that she'd been making falafel. Dad came home while we were
still at the table and Mom and I took turns telling him the story. He
shook his head.

"Lillian, they were just doing their jobs." He was still wearing the
blue blazer and khakis he wore on the days that he was consulting in
Silicon Valley. "The world isn't the same place it was last week."

Mom set down her teacup. "Drew, you're being ridiculous. Your son is
not a terrorist. His use of the public transit system is not cause for
a police investigation."

Dad took off his blazer. "We do this all the time at my work. It's how
computers can be used to find all kinds of errors, anomalies and
outcomes. You ask the computer to create a profile of an average record
in a database and then ask it to find out which records in the database
are furthest away from average. It's part of something called Bayesian
analysis and it's been around for centuries now. Without it, we
couldn't do spam-filtering --"

"So you're saying that you think the police should suck as hard as my
spam filter?" I said.

Dad never got angry at me for arguing with him, but tonight I could see
the strain was running high in him. Still, I couldn't resist. My own
father, taking the police's side!

"I'm saying that it's perfectly reasonable for the police to conduct
their investigations by starting with data-mining, and then following
it up with leg-work where a human being actually intervenes to see why
the abnormality exists. I don't think that a computer should be telling
the police whom to arrest, just helping them sort through the haystack
to find a needle."

"But by taking in all that data from the transit system, they're
*creating the haystack*," I said. "That's a gigantic mountain of data
and there's almost nothing worth looking at there, from the police's
point of view. It's a total waste."

"I understand that you don't like that this system caused you some
inconvenience, Marcus. But you of all people should appreciate the
gravity of the situation. There was no harm done, was there? They even
gave you a ride home."

*They threatened to send me to jail,* I thought, but I could see there
was no point in saying it.

"Besides, you still haven't told us where the blazing hells you've been
to create such an unusual traffic pattern."

That brought me up short.

"I thought you relied on my judgment, that you didn't want to spy on
me." He'd said this often enough. "Do you really want me to account for
every trip I've ever taken?"



I hooked up my Xbox as soon as I got to my room. I'd bolted the
projector to the ceiling so that it could shine on the wall over my bed
(I'd had to take down my awesome mural of punk rock handbills I'd taken
down off telephone poles and glued to big sheets of white paper).

I powered up the Xbox and watched as it came onto the screen. I was
going to email Van and Jolu to tell them about the hassles with the
cops, but as I put my fingers to the keyboard, I stopped again.

A feeling crept over me, one not unlike the feeling I'd had when I
realized that they'd turned poor old Salmagundi into a traitor. This
time, it was the feeling that my beloved Xnet might be broadcasting the
location of every one of its users to the DHS.

It was what Dad had said: *You ask the computer to create a profile of
an average record in a database and then ask it to find out which
records in the database are furthest away from average.*

The Xnet was secure because its users weren't directly connected to the
Internet. They hopped from Xbox to Xbox until they found one that was
connected to the Internet, then they injected their material as
undecipherable, encrypted data. No one could tell which of the
Internet's packets were Xnet and which ones were just plain old banking
and e-commerce and other encrypted communication. You couldn't find out
who was tying the Xnet, let alone who was using the Xnet.

But what about Dad's "Bayesian statistics?" I'd played with Bayesian
math before. Darryl and I once tried to write our own better spam
filter and when you filter spam, you need Bayesian math. Thomas Bayes
was an 18th century British mathematician that no one cared about until
a couple hundred years after he died, when computer scientists realized
that his technique for statistically analyzing mountains of data would
be super-useful for the modern world's info-Himalayas.

Here's some of how Bayesian stats work. Say you've got a bunch of spam.
You take every word that's in the spam and count how many times it
appears. This is called a "word frequency histogram" and it tells you
what the probability is that any bag of words is likely to be spam.
Now, take a ton of email that's not spam -- in the biz, they call that
"ham" -- and do the same.

Wait until a new email arrives and count the words that appear in it.
Then use the word-frequency histogram in the candidate message to
calculate the probability that it belongs in the "spam" pile or the
"ham" pile. If it turns out to be spam, you adjust the "spam" histogram
accordingly. There are lots of ways to refine the technique -- looking
at words in pairs, throwing away old data -- but this is how it works
at core. It's one of those great, simple ideas that seems obvious after
you hear about it.

It's got lots of applications -- you can ask a computer to count the
lines in a picture and see if it's more like a "dog" line-frequency
histogram or a "cat" line-frequency histogram. It can find porn, bank
fraud, and flamewars. Useful stuff.

And it was bad news for the Xnet. Say you had the whole Internet
wiretapped -- which, of course, the DHS has. You can't tell who's
passing Xnet packets by looking at the contents of those packets,
thanks to crypto.

What you *can* do is find out who is sending way, way more encrypted
traffic out than everyone else. For a normal Internet surfer, a session
online is probably about 95 percent cleartext, five percent ciphertext.
If someone is sending out 95 percent ciphertext, maybe you could
dispatch the computer-savvy equivalents of Booger and Zit to ask them
if they're terrorist drug-dealer Xnet users.

This happens all the time in China. Some smart dissident will get the
idea of getting around the Great Firewall of China, which is used to
censor the whole country's Internet connection, by using an encrypted
connection to a computer in some other country. Now, the Party there
can't tell what the dissident is surfing: maybe it's porn, or
bomb-making instructions, or dirty letters from his girlfriend in the
Philippines, or political material, or good news about Scientology.
They don't have to know. All they have to know is that this guy gets
way more encrypted traffic than his neighbors. At that point, they send
him to a forced labor camp just to set an example so that everyone can
see what happens to smart-asses.

So far, I was willing to bet that the Xnet was under the DHS's radar,
but it wouldn't be the case forever. And after tonight, I wasn't sure
that I was in any better shape than a Chinese dissident. I was putting
all the people who signed onto the Xnet in jeopardy. The law didn't
care if you were actually doing anything bad; they were willing to put
you under the microscope just for being statistically abnormal. And I
couldn't even stop it -- now that the Xnet was running, it had a life
of its own.

I was going to have to fix it some other way.

I wished I could talk to Jolu about this. He worked at an Internet
Service Provider called Pigspleen Net that had hired him when he was
twelve, and he knew way more about the net than I did. If anyone knew
how to keep our butts out of jail, it would be him.

Luckily, Van and Jolu and I were planning to meet for coffee the next
night at our favorite place in the Mission after school. Officially, it
was our weekly Harajuku Fun Madness team meeting, but with the game
canceled and Darryl gone, it was pretty much just a weekly weep-fest,
supplemented by about six phone-calls and IMs a day that went, "Are you
OK? Did  it really happen?" It would be good to have something else to
talk about.



"You're out of your mind," Vanessa said. "Are you actually, totally,
really, for-real crazy or what?"

She had shown up in her girl's school uniform because she'd been stuck
going the long way home, all the way down to the San Mateo bridge then
back up into the city, on a shuttle-bus service that her school was
operating. She hated being seen in public in her gear, which was
totally Sailor Moon -- a pleated skirt and a tunic and knee-socks.
She'd been in a bad mood ever since she turned up at the cafe, which
was full of older, cooler, mopey emo art students who snickered into
their lattes when she turned up.

"What do you want me to do, Van?" I said. I was getting exasperated
myself. School was unbearable now that the game wasn't on, now that
Darryl was missing. All day long, in my classes, I consoled myself with
the thought of seeing my team, what was left of it. Now we were
fighting.

"I want you to stop putting yourself at risk, M1k3y." The hairs on the
back of my neck stood up. Sure, we always used our team handles at team
meetings, but now that my handle was also associated with my Xnet use,
it scared me to hear it said aloud in a public place.

"Don't use that name in public anymore," I snapped.

Van shook her head. "That's just what I'm talking about. You could end
up going to jail for this, Marcus, and not just you. Lots of people.
After what happened to Darryl --"

"I'm doing this for Darryl!" Art students swiveled to look at us and I
lowered my voice. "I'm doing this because the alternative is to let
them get away with it all."

"You think you're going to stop them? You're out of your mind. They're
the government."

"It's still our country," I said. "We still have the right to do this."

Van looked like she was going to cry. She took a couple of deep breaths
and stood up. "I can't do it, I'm sorry. I can't watch you do this.
It's like watching a car-wreck in slow motion. You're going to destroy
yourself, and I love you too much to watch it happen."

She bent down and gave me a fierce hug and a hard kiss on the cheek
that caught the edge of my mouth. "Take care of yourself, Marcus," she
said. My mouth burned where her lips had pressed it. She gave Jolu the
same treatment, but square on the cheek. Then she left.

Jolu and I stared at each other after she'd gone.

I put my face in my hands. "Dammit," I said, finally.

Jolu patted me on the back and ordered me another latte. "It'll be OK,"
he said.

"You'd think Van, of all people, would understand." Half of Van's
family lived in North Korea. Her parents never forgot that they had all
those people living under a  crazy dictator, not able to escape to
America, the way her parents had.

Jolu shrugged. "Maybe that's why she's so freaked out. Because she
knows how dangerous it can get."

I knew what he was talking about. Two of Van's uncles had gone to jail
and had never reappeared.

"Yeah," I said.

"So how come you weren't on Xnet last night?"

I was grateful for the distraction. I explained it all to him, the
Bayesian stuff and my fear that we couldn't go on using Xnet the way we
had been without getting nabbed. He listened thoughtfully.

"I see what you're saying. The problem is that if there's too much
crypto in someone's Internet connection, they'll stand out as unusual.
But if you don't encrypt, you'll make it easy for the bad guys to
wiretap you."

"Yeah," I said. "I've been trying to figure it out all day. Maybe we
could slow the connection down, spread it out over more peoples'
accounts --"

"Won't work," he said. "To get it slow enough to vanish into the noise,
you'd have to basically shut down the network, which isn't an option."

"You're right," I said. "But what else can we do?"

"What if we changed the definition of normal?"

And that was why Jolu got hired to work at Pigspleen when he was 12.
Give him a problem with two bad solutions and he'd figure out a third
totally different solution based on throwing away all your assumptions.
I nodded vigorously. "Go on, tell me."

"What if the average San Francisco Internet user had a *lot* more
crypto in his average day on the Internet? If we could change the split
so it's more like fifty-fifty cleartext to ciphertext, then the users
that supply the Xnet would just look like normal."

"But how do we do that? People just don't care enough about their
privacy to surf the net through an encrypted link. They don't see why
it matters if eavesdroppers know what they're googling for."

"Yeah, but web-pages are small amounts of traffic. If we got people to
routinely download a few giant encrypted files every day, that would
create as much ciphertext as thousands of web-pages."

"You're talking about indienet," I said.

"You got it," he said.

indienet -- all lower case, always -- was the thing that made Pigspleen
Net into one of the most successful independent ISPs in the world. Back
when the major record labels started suing their fans for downloading
their music, a lot of the independent labels and their artists were
aghast. How can you make money by suing your customers?

Pigspleen's founder had the answer: she opened up a deal for any act
that wanted to work with their fans instead of fighting them. Give
Pigspleen a license to distribute your music to its customers and it
would give you a share of the subscription fees based on how popular
your music was. For an indie artist, the big problem isn't piracy, it's
obscurity: no one even cares enough about your tunes to steal 'em.

It worked. Hundreds of independent acts and labels signed up with
Pigspleen, and the more music there was, the more fans switched to
getting their Internet service from Pigspleen, and the more money there
was for the artists. Inside of a year, the ISP had a hundred thousand
new customers and now it had a million -- more than half the broadband
connections in the city.

"An overhaul of the indienet code has been on my plate for months now,"
Jolu said. "The original programs were written really fast and dirty
and they could be made a lot more efficient with a little work. But I
just haven't had the time. One of the high-marked to-do items has been
to encrypt the connections, just because Trudy likes it that way."
Trudy Doo was the founder of Pigspleen. She was an old time San
Francisco punk legend, the singer/front-woman of the anarcho-feminist
band Speedwhores, and she was crazy about privacy. I could totally
believe that she'd want her music service encrypted on general
principles.

"Will it be hard? I mean, how long would it take?"

"Well, there's tons of crypto code for free online, of course," Jolu
said. He was doing the thing he did when he was digging into a meaty
code problem -- getting that faraway look, drumming his palms on the
table, making the coffee slosh into the saucers. I wanted to laugh --
everything might be destroyed and crap and scary, but Jolu would write
that code.

"Can I help?"

He looked at me. "What, you don't think I can manage it?"

"What?"

"I mean, you did this whole Xnet thing without even telling me. Without
talking to me. I kind of thought that you didn't need my help with this
stuff."

I was brought up short. "What?" I said again. Jolu was looking really
steamed now. It was clear that this had been eating him for a long
time. "Jolu --"

He looked at me and I could see that he was furious. How had I missed
this? God, I was such an idiot sometimes. "Look dude, it's not a big
deal --" by which he clearly meant that it was a really big deal "--
it's just that you know, you never even *asked*. I hate the DHS. Darryl
was my friend too. I could have really helped with it."

I wanted to stick my head between my knees. "Listen Jolu, that was
really stupid of me. I did it at like two in the morning. I was just
crazy when it was happening. I --" I couldn't explain it. Yeah, he was
right, and that was the problem. It had been two in the morning but I
could have talked to Jolu about it the next day or the next. I hadn't
because I'd known what he'd say -- that it was an ugly hack, that I
needed to think it through better. Jolu was always figuring out how to
turn my 2 AM ideas into real code, but the stuff that he came out with
was always a little different from what I'd come up with. I'd wanted
the project for myself. I'd gotten totally into being M1k3y.

"I'm sorry," I said at last. "I'm really, really sorry. You're totally
right. I just got freaked out and did something stupid. I really need
your help. I can't make this work without you."

"You mean it?"

"Of course I mean it," I said. "You're the best coder I know. You're a
goddamned genius, Jolu. I would be honored if you'd help me with this."

He drummed his fingers some more. "It's just -- You know. You're the
leader. Van's the smart one. Darryl was... He was your
second-in-command, the guy who had it all organized, who watched the
details. Being the programmer, that was *my* thing. It felt like you
were saying you didn't need me."

"Oh man, I am such an idiot. Jolu, you're the best-qualified person I
know to do this. I'm really, really, really --"

"All right, already. Stop. Fine. I believe you. We're all really
screwed up right now. So yeah, of course you can help. We can probably
even pay you -- I've got a little budget for contract programmers."

"Really?" No one had ever paid me for writing code.

"Sure. You're probably good enough to be worth it." He grinned and
slugged me in the shoulder. Jolu's really easy-going most of the time,
which is why he'd freaked me out so much.

I paid for the coffees and we went out. I called my parents and let
them know what I was doing. Jolu's mom insisted on making us
sandwiches. We locked ourselves in his room with his computer and the
code for indienet and we embarked on one of the great all-time marathon
programming sessions. Once Jolu's family went to bed around 11:30, we
were able to kidnap the coffee-machine up to his room and go IV with
our magic coffee bean supply.

If you've never programmed a computer, you should. There's nothing like
it in the whole world. When you program a computer, it does *exactly*
what you tell it to do. It's like designing a machine -- any machine,
like a car, like a faucet, like a gas-hinge for a door -- using math
and instructions. It's awesome in the truest sense: it can fill you
with awe.

A computer is the most complicated machine you'll ever use. It's made
of billions of micro-miniaturized transistors that can be configured to
run any program you can imagine. But when you sit down at the keyboard
and write a line of code, those transistors do what you tell them to.

Most of us will never build a car. Pretty much none of us will ever
create an aviation system. Design a building. Lay out a city.

Those are complicated machines, those things, and they're off-limits to
the likes of you and me. But a computer is like, ten times more
complicated, and it will dance to any tune you play. You can learn to
write simple code in an afternoon. Start with a language like Python,
which was written to give non-programmers an easier way to make the
machine dance to their tune. Even if you only write code for one day,
one afternoon, you have to do it. Computers can control you or they can
lighten your work -- if you want to be in charge of your machines, you
have to learn to write code.

We wrote a lot of code that night.

&&&

Chapter 8

[[This chapter is dedicated to Borders, the global bookselling giant
that you can find in cities all over the world -- I'll never forget
walking into the gigantic Borders on Orchard Road in Singapore and
discovering a shelf loaded with my novels! For many years, the Borders
in Oxford Street in London hosted Pat Cadigan's monthly science fiction
evenings, where local and visiting authors would read their work, speak
about science fiction and meet their fans. When I'm in a strange city
(which happens a lot) and I need a great book for my next flight, there
always seems to be a Borders brimming with great choices -- I'm
especially partial to the Borders on Union Square in San Francisco.]]

[[Borders worldwide http://www.bordersstores.com/locator/locator.jsp]]

I wasn't the only one who got screwed up by the histograms. There are
lots of people who have abnormal traffic patterns, abnormal usage
patterns. Abnormal is so common, it's practically normal.

The Xnet was full of these stories, and so were the newspapers and the
TV news. Husbands were caught cheating on their wives; wives were
caught cheating on their husbands, kids were caught sneaking out with
illicit girlfriends and boyfriends. A kid who hadn't told his parents
he had AIDS got caught going to the clinic for his drugs.

Those were the people with something to hide -- not guilty people, but
people with secrets. There were even more people with nothing to hide
at all, but who nevertheless resented being picked up, and questioned.
Imagine if someone locked you in the back of a police car and demanded
that you prove that you're *not* a terrorist.

It wasn't just public transit. Most drivers in the Bay Area have a
FasTrak pass clipped to their sun-visors. This is a little radio-based
"wallet" that pays your tolls for you when you cross the bridges,
saving you the hassle of sitting in a line for hours at the
toll-plazas. They'd tripled the cost of using cash to get across the
bridge (though they always fudged this, saying that FasTrak was
cheaper, not that anonymous cash was more expensive). Whatever holdouts
were left afterward disappeared after the number of cash-lanes was
reduced to just one per bridge-head, so that the cash lines were even
longer.

So if you're a local, or if you're driving a rental car from a local
agency, you've got a FasTrak. It turns out that toll-plazas aren't the
only place that your FasTrak gets read, though. The DHS had put FasTrak
readers all over town -- when you drove past them, they logged the time
and your ID number, building an ever-more perfect picture of who went
where, when, in a database that was augmented by "speeding cameras,"
"red light cameras" and all the other license-plate cameras that had
popped up like mushrooms.

No one had given it much thought. And now that people were paying
attention, we were all starting to notice little things, like the fact
that the FasTrak doesn't have an off-switch.

So if you drove a car, you were just as likely to be pulled over by an
SFPD cruiser that wanted to know why you were taking so many trips to
the Home Depot lately, and what was that midnight drive up to Sonoma
last week about?

The little demonstrations around town on the weekend were growing.
Fifty thousand people marched down Market Street after a week of this
monitoring. I couldn't care less. The people who'd occupied my city
didn't care what the natives wanted. They were a conquering army. They
knew how we felt about that.

One morning I came down to breakfast just in time to hear Dad tell Mom
that the two biggest taxi companies were going to give a "discount" to
people who used special cards to pay their fares, supposedly to make
drivers safer by reducing the amount of cash they carried. I wondered
what would happen to the information about who took which cabs where.

I realized how close I'd come. The new indienet client had been pushed
out as an automatic update just as this stuff started to get bad, and
Jolu told me that 80 percent of the traffic he saw at Pigspleen was now
encrypted. The Xnet just might have been saved.

Dad was driving me nuts, though.

"You're being paranoid, Marcus," he told me over breakfast one day as I
told him about the guys I'd seen the cops shaking down on BART the day
before.

"Dad, it's ridiculous. They're not catching any terrorists, are they?
It's just making people scared."

"They may not have caught any terrorists yet, but they're sure getting
a lot of scumbags off the streets. Look at the drug dealers -- it says
they've put dozens of them away since this all started. Remember when
those druggies robbed you? If we don't bust their dealers, it'll only
get worse." I'd been mugged the year before. They'd been pretty
civilized about it. One skinny guy who smelled bad told me he had a
gun, the other one asked me for my wallet. They even let me keep my ID,
though they got my debit card and Fast Pass. It had still scared me
witless and left me paranoid and checking my shoulder for weeks.

"But most of the people they hold up aren't doing anything wrong, Dad,"
I said. This was getting to me. My own father! "It's crazy. For every
guilty person they catch, they have to punish thousands of innocent
people. That's just not good."

"Innocent? Guys cheating on their wives? Drug dealers? You're defending
them, but what about all the people who died? If you don't have
anything to hide --"

"So you wouldn't mind if they pulled *you* over?" My dad's histograms
had proven to be depressingly normal so far.

"I'd consider it my duty," he said. "I'd be proud. It would make me
feel safer."

Easy for him to say.



Vanessa didn't like me talking about this stuff, but she was too smart
about it for me to stay away from the subject for long. We'd get
together all the time, and talk about the weather and school and stuff,
and then, somehow, I'd be back on this subject. Vanessa was cool when
it happened -- she didn't Hulk out on me again -- but I could see it
upset her.

Still.

"So my dad says, 'I'd consider it my duty.' Can you freaking *believe*
it? I mean, God! I almost told him then about going to jail, asking him
if he thought that was our 'duty'!"

We were sitting in the grass in Dolores Park after school, watching the
dogs chase frisbees.

Van had stopped at home and changed into an old t-shirt for one of her
favorite Brazilian tecno-brega bands, Carioca Proibidão -- the
forbidden guy from Rio. She'd gotten the shirt at a live show we'd all
gone to two years before, sneaking out for a grand adventure down at
the Cow Palace, and she'd sprouted an inch or two since, so it was
tight and rode up her tummy, showing her flat little belly button.

She lay back in the weak sun with her eyes closed behind her shades,
her toes wiggling in her flip-flops. I'd known Van since forever, and
when I thought of her, I usually saw the little kid I'd known with
hundreds of jangly bracelets made out of sliced-up soda cans, who
played the piano and couldn't dance to save her life. Sitting out there
in Dolores Park, I suddenly saw her as she was.

She was totally h4wt -- that is to say, hot. It was like looking at
that picture of a vase and noticing that it was also two faces. I could
see that Van was just Van, but I could also see that she was hella
pretty, something I'd never noticed.

Of course, Darryl had known it all along, and don't think that I wasn't
bummed out anew when I realized this.

"You can't tell your dad, you know," she said. "You'd put us all at
risk." Her eyes were closed and her chest was rising up and down with
her breath, which was distracting in a really embarrassing way.

"Yeah," I said, glumly. "But the problem is that I know he's just
totally full of it. If you pulled my dad over and made him prove he
wasn't a child-molesting, drug-dealing terrorist, he'd go berserk.
Totally off-the-rails. He hates being put on hold when he calls about
his credit-card bill. Being locked in the back of a car and questioned
for an hour would give him an aneurism."

"They only get away with it because the normals feel smug compared to
the abnormals. If everyone was getting pulled over, it'd be a disaster.
No one would ever get anywhere, they'd all be waiting to get questioned
by the cops. Total gridlock."

Woah.

"Van, you are a total genius," I said.

"Tell me about it," she said. She had a lazy smile and she looked at me
through half-lidded eyes, almost romantic.

"Seriously. We can do this. We can mess up the profiles easily. Getting
people pulled over is easy."

She sat up and pushed her hair off her face and looked at me. I felt a
little flip in my stomach, thinking that she was really impressed with
me.

"It's the arphid cloners," I said. "They're totally easy to make. Just
flash the firmware on a ten-dollar Radio Shack reader/writer and you're
done. What we do is go around and randomly swap the tags on people,
overwriting their Fast Passes and FasTraks with other people's codes.
That'll make *everyone* skew all weird and screwy, and make everyone
look guilty. Then: total gridlock."

Van pursed her lips and lowered her shades and I realized she was so
angry she couldn't speak.

"Good bye, Marcus," she said, and got to her feet. Before I knew it,
she was walking away so fast she was practically running.

"Van!" I called, getting to my feet and chasing after her. "Van! Wait!"

She picked up speed, making me run to catch up with her.

"Van, what the hell," I said, catching her arm. She jerked it away so
hard I punched myself in the face.

"You're psycho, Marcus. You're going to put all your little Xnet
buddies in danger for their lives, and on top of it, you're going to
turn the whole city into terrorism suspects. Can't you stop before you
hurt these people?"

I opened and closed my mouth a couple times. "Van, *I'm* not the
problem, *they* are. I'm not arresting people, jailing them, making
them disappear. The Department of Homeland Security are the ones doing
that. I'm fighting back to make them stop."

"How, by making it worse?"

"Maybe it has to get worse to get better, Van. Isn't that what you were
saying? If everyone was getting pulled over --"

"That's not what I meant. I didn't mean you should get everyone
arrested. If you want to protest, join the protest movement. Do
something positive. Didn't you learn *anything* from Darryl?
*Anything?*"

"You're damned right I did," I said, losing my cool. "I learned that
they can't be trusted. That if you're not fighting them, you're helping
them. That they'll turn the country into a prison if we let them. What
did you learn, Van? To be scared all the time, to sit tight and keep
your head down and hope you don't get noticed? You think it's going to
get better? If we don't do anything, this is as *good as it's going to
get*. It will only get worse and worse from now on. You want to help
Darryl? Help me bring them down!"

There it was again. My vow. Not to get Darryl free, but to bring down
the entire DHS. That was crazy, even I knew it. But it was what I
planned to do. No question about it.

Van shoved me hard with both hands. She was strong from school
athletics -- fencing, lacrosse, field hockey, all the girls-school
sports -- and I ended up on my ass on the disgusting San Francisco
sidewalk. She took off and I didn't follow.



> The important thing about security systems isn't how they work, it's
> how they fail.

That was the first line of my first blog post on Open Revolt, my Xnet
site. I was writing as M1k3y, and I was ready to go to war.

> Maybe all the automatic screening is supposed to catch terrorists.
> Maybe it will catch a terrorist sooner or later. The problem is that
> it catches *us* too, even though we're not doing anything wrong.

> The more people it catches, the more brittle it gets. If it catches
> too many people, it dies. 

> Get the idea?

I pasted in my HOWTO for building a arphid cloner, and some tips for
getting close enough to people to read and write their tags. I put my
own cloner in the pocket of my vintage black leather motocross jacket
with the armored pockets and left for school. I managed to clone six
tags between home and Chavez High.

It was war they wanted. It was war they'd get.



If you ever decide to do something as stupid as build an automatic
terrorism detector, here's a math lesson you need to learn first. It's
called "the paradox of the false positive," and it's a doozy.

Say you have a new disease, called Super-AIDS. Only one in a million
people gets Super-AIDS. You develop a test for Super-AIDS that's 99
percent accurate. I mean, 99 percent of the time, it gives the correct
result -- true if the subject is infected, and false if the subject is
healthy. You give the test to a million people.

One in a million people have Super-AIDS. One in a hundred people that
you test will generate a "false positive" -- the test will say he has
Super-AIDS even though he doesn't. That's what "99 percent accurate"
means: one percent wrong.

What's one percent of one million?

1,000,000/100 = 10,000

One in a million people has Super-AIDS. If you test a million random
people, you'll probably only find one case of real Super-AIDS. But your
test won't identify *one* person as having Super-AIDS. It will identify
*10,000* people as having it.

Your 99 percent accurate test will perform with 99.99 percent
*inaccuracy*.

That's the paradox of the false positive. When you try to find
something really rare, your test's accuracy has to match the rarity of
the thing you're looking for. If you're trying to point at a single
pixel on your screen, a sharp pencil is a good pointer: the pencil-tip
is a lot smaller (more accurate) than the pixels. But a pencil-tip is
no good at pointing at a single *atom* in your screen. For that, you
need a pointer -- a test -- that's one atom wide or less at the tip.

This is the paradox of the false positive, and here's how it applies to
terrorism:

Terrorists are really rare. In a city of twenty million like New York,
there might be one or two terrorists. Maybe ten of them at the outside.
10/20,000,000 = 0.00005 percent. One twenty-thousandth of a percent.

That's pretty rare all right. Now, say you've got some software that
can sift through all the bank-records, or toll-pass records, or public
transit records, or phone-call records in the city and catch terrorists
99 percent of the time.

In a pool of twenty million people, a 99 percent accurate test will
identify two hundred thousand people as being terrorists. But only ten
of them are terrorists. To catch ten bad guys, you have to haul in and
investigate two hundred thousand innocent people.

Guess what? Terrorism tests aren't anywhere *close* to 99 percent
accurate. More like 60 percent accurate. Even 40 percent accurate,
sometimes.

What this all meant was that the Department of Homeland Security had
set itself up to fail badly. They were trying to spot incredibly rare
events -- a person is a terrorist -- with inaccurate systems.

Is it any wonder we were able to make such a mess?



I stepped out the front door whistling on a Tuesday morning one week
into the Operation False Positive. I was rockin' out to some new music
I'd downloaded from the Xnet the night before -- lots of people sent
M1k3y little digital gifts to say thank you for giving them hope.

I turned onto 23d Street and carefully took the narrow stone steps cut
into the side of the hill. As I descended, I passed Mr Wiener Dog. I
don't know Mr Wiener Dog's real name, but I see him nearly every day,
walking his three panting wiener dogs up the staircase to the little
parkette. Squeezing past them all on the stairs is pretty much
impossible and I always end up tangled in a leash, knocked into
someone's front garden, or perched on the bumper of one of the cars
parked next to the curb.

Mr Wiener Dog is clearly Someone Important, because he has a fancy
watch and always wears a nice suit. I had mentally assumed that he
worked down in the financial district.

Today as I brushed up against him, I triggered my arphid cloner, which
was already loaded in the pocket of my leather jacket. The cloner
sucked down the numbers off his credit-cards and his car-keys, his
passport and the hundred-dollar bills in his wallet.

Even as it was doing that, it was flashing some of them with new
numbers, taken from other people I'd brushed against. It was like
switching the license-plates on a bunch of cars, but invisible and
instantaneous. I smiled apologetically at Mr Wiener Dog and continued
down the stairs. I stopped at three of the cars long enough to swap
their FasTrak tags with numbers taken off of all the cars I'd gone past
the day before.

You might think I was being a little aggro here, but I was cautious and
conservative compared to a lot of the Xnetters. A couple girls in the
Chemical Engineering program at UC Berkeley had figured out how to make
a harmless substance out of kitchen products that would trip an
explosive sniffer. They'd had a merry time sprinkling it on their
profs' briefcases and jackets, then hiding out and watching the same
profs try to get into the auditoriums and libraries on campus, only to
get flying-tackled by the new security squads that had sprung up
everywhere.

Other people wanted to figure out how to dust envelopes with substances
that would test positive for anthrax, but everyone else thought they
were out of their minds. Luckily, it didn't seem like they'd be able to
figure it out.

I passed by San Francisco General Hospital and nodded with satisfaction
as I saw the huge lines at the front doors. They had a police
checkpoint too, of course, and there were enough Xnetters working as
interns and cafeteria workers and whatnot there that everyone's badges
had been snarled up and swapped around. I'd read the security checks
had tacked an hour onto everyone's work day, and the unions were
threatening to walk out unless the hospital did something about it.

A few blocks later, I saw an even longer line for the BART. Cops were
walking up and down the line pointing people out and calling them aside
for questioning, bag-searches and pat-downs. They kept getting sued for
doing this, but it didn't seem to be slowing them down.

I got to school a little ahead of time and decided to walk down to 22nd
Street to get a coffee -- and I passed a police checkpoint where they
were pulling over cars for secondary inspection.

School was no less wild -- the security guards on the metal detectors
were also wanding our school IDs and pulling out students with odd
movements for questioning. Needless to say, we all had pretty weird
movements. Needless to say, classes were starting an hour or more
later.

Classes were crazy. I don't think anyone was able to concentrate. I
overheard two teachers talking about how long it had taken them to get
home from work the day before, and planning to sneak out early that
day.

It was all I could do to keep from laughing. The paradox of the false
positive strikes again!

Sure enough, they let us out of class early and I headed home the long
way, circling through the Mission to see the havoc. Long lines of cars.
BART stations lined up around the blocks. People swearing at ATMs that
wouldn't dispense their money because they'd had their accounts frozen
for suspicious activity (that's the danger of wiring your checking
account straight into your FasTrak and Fast Pass!).

I got home and made myself a sandwich and logged into the Xnet. It had
been a good day. People from all over town were crowing about their
successes. We'd brought the city of San Francisco to a standstill. The
news-reports confirmed it -- they were calling it the DHS gone haywire,
blaming it all on the fake-ass "security" that was supposed to be
protecting us from terrorism. The Business section of the San Francisco
Chronicle gave its whole front page to an estimate of the economic cost
of the DHS security resulting from missed work hours, meetings and so
on. According to the Chronicle's economist, a week of this crap would
cost the city more than the Bay Bridge bombing had.

Mwa-ha-ha-ha.

The best part: Dad got home that night late. Very late. Three *hours*
late. Why? Because he'd been pulled over, searched, questioned. Then it
happened *again*. Twice.

Twice!

&&&

Chapter 9

[[This chapter is dedicated to Compass Books/Books Inc, the oldest
independent bookstore in the western USA. They've got stores up and
down California, in San Francisco, Burlingame, Mountain View and Palo
Alto, but coolest of all is that they run a killer bookstore in the
middle of Disneyland's Downtown Disney in Anaheim. I'm a stone Disney
park freak (see my first novel, Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom if
you don't believe it), and every time I've lived in California, I've
bought myself an annual Disneyland pass, and on practically every
visit, I drop by Compass Books in Downtown Disney. They stock a
brilliant selection of unauthorized (and even critical) books about
Disney, as well as a great variety of kids books and science fiction,
and the cafe next door makes a mean cappuccino.]]

[[Compass Books/Books Inc:
http://www.booksinc.net/NASApp/store/Product;jsessionid=abcF-ch09-
pbU6m7ZRrLr?s=showproduct&isbn=0765319853]]

He was so angry I thought he was going to pop. You know I said I'd only
seen him lose his cool rarely? That night, he lost it more than he ever
had.

"You wouldn't believe it. This cop, he was like eighteen years old and
he kept saying, 'But sir, why were you in Berkeley yesterday if your
client is in Mountain View?' I kept explaining to him that I teach at
Berkeley and then he'd say, 'I thought you were a consultant,' and we'd
start over again. It was like some kind of sitcom where the cops have
been taken over by the stupidity ray.

"What's worse was he kept insisting that I'd been in Berkeley today as
well, and I kept saying no, I hadn't been, and he said I had been. Then
he showed me my FasTrak billing and it said I'd driven the San Mateo
bridge three times that day!

"That's not all," he said, and drew in a breath that let me know he was
really steamed. "They had information about where I'd been, places that
*didn't have a toll plaza*. They'd been polling my pass just on the
street, at random. And it was *wrong*! Holy crap, I mean, they're
spying on us all and they're not even competent!"

I'd drifted down into the kitchen as he railed there, and now I was
watching him from the doorway. Mom met my eye and we both raised our
eyebrows as if to say, *Who's going to say 'I told you so' to him?* I
nodded at her. She could use her spousular powers to nullify his rage
in a way that was out of my reach as a mere filial unit.

"Drew," she said, and grabbed him by the arm to make him stop stalking
back and forth in the kitchen, waving his arms like a street-preacher.

"What?" he snapped.

"I think you owe Marcus an apology." She kept her voice even and level.
Dad and I are the spazzes in the household -- Mom's a total rock.

Dad looked at me. His eyes narrowed as he thought for a minute. "All
right," he said at last. "You're right. I was talking about competent
surveillance. These guys were total amateurs. I'm sorry, son," he said.
"You were right. That was ridiculous." He stuck his hand out and shook
my hand, then gave me a firm, unexpected hug.

"God, what are we doing to this country, Marcus? Your generation
deserves to inherit something better than this." When he let me go, I
could see the deep wrinkles in his face, lines I'd never noticed.

I went back up to my room and played some Xnet games. There was a good
multiplayer thing, a clockwork pirate game where you had to quest every
day or two to wind up your whole crew's mainsprings before you could go
plundering and pillaging again. It was the kind of game I hated but
couldn't stop playing: lots of repetitive quests that weren't all that
satisfying to complete, a little bit of player-versus-player combat
(scrapping to see who would captain the ship) and not that many cool
puzzles that you had to figure out. Mostly, playing this kind of game
made me homesick for Harajuku Fun Madness, which balanced out running
around in the real world, figuring out online puzzles, and strategizing
with your team.

But today it was just what I needed. Mindless entertainment.

My poor dad.

I'd done that to him. He'd been happy before, confident that his tax
dollars were being spent to keep him safe. I'd destroyed that
confidence. It was false confidence, of course, but it had kept him
going. Seeing him now, miserable and broken, I wondered if it was
better to be clear-eyed and hopeless or to live in a fool's paradise.
That shame -- the shame I'd felt since I gave up my passwords, since
they'd broken me -- returned, leaving me listless and wanting to just
get away from myself.

My character was a swabbie on the pirate ship *Zombie Charger*, and
he'd wound down while I'd been offline. I had to IM all the other
players on my ship until I found one willing to wind me up. That kept
me occupied. I liked it, actually. There was something magic about a
total stranger doing you a favor. And since it was the Xnet, I knew
that all the strangers were friends, in some sense.

> Where u located?

The character who wound me up was called Lizanator, and it was female,
though that didn't mean that it was a girl. Guys had some weird
affinity for playing female characters.

> San Francisco

I said.

> No stupe, where you located in San Fran?

> Why, you a pervert?

That usually shut down that line of conversation. Of course every
gamespace was full of pedos and pervs, and cops pretending to be pedo-
and perv-bait (though I sure hoped there weren't any cops on the
Xnet!). An accusation like that was enough to change the subject nine
out of ten times.

> Mission? Potrero Hill? Noe? East Bay?

> Just wind me up k thx?

She stopped winding.

> You scared?

> Safe -- why do you care?

> Just curious

I was getting a bad vibe off her. She was clearly more than just
curious. Call it paranoia. I logged off and shut down my Xbox.



Dad looked at me over the table the next morning and said, "It looks
like it's going to get better, at least." He handed me a copy of the
*Chronicle* open to the third page.

> A Department of Homeland Security spokesman has confirmed that the
> San Francisco office has requested a 300 percent budget and personnel
> increase from DC

What?

> Major General Graeme Sutherland, the commanding officer for Northern
> California DHS operations, confirmed the request at a press
> conference yesterday, noting that a spike in suspicious activity in
> the Bay Area prompted the request. "We are tracking a spike in
> underground chatter and activity and believe that saboteurs are
> deliberately manufacturing false security alerts to undermine our
> efforts."

My eyes crossed. No freaking way.

> "These false alarms are potentially 'radar chaff' intended to
> disguise real attacks. The only effective way of combatting them is
> to step up staffing and analyst levels so that we can fully
> investigate every lead."

> Sutherland noted the delays experienced all over the city were
> "unfortunate" and committed to eliminating them.

I had a vision of the city with four or five times as many DHS
enforcers, brought in to make up for my own stupid ideas. Van was
right. The more I fought them, the worse it was going to get.

Dad pointed at the paper. "These guys may be fools, but they're
methodical fools. They'll just keep throwing resources at this problem
until they solve it. It's tractable, you know. Mining all the data in
the city, following up on every lead. They'll catch the terrorists."

I lost it. "Dad! Are you *listening to yourself*? They're talking about
investigating practically every person in the city of San Francisco!"

"Yeah," he said, "that's right. They'll catch every alimony cheat,
every dope dealer, every dirt-bag and every terrorist. You just wait.
This could be the best thing that ever happened to this country."

"Tell me you're joking," I said. "I beg you. You think that that's what
they intended when they wrote the Constitution? What about the Bill of
Rights?"

"The Bill of Rights was written before data-mining," he said. He was
awesomely serene, convinced of his rightness. "The right to freedom of
association is fine, but why shouldn't the cops be allowed to mine your
social network to figure out if you're hanging out with gangbangers and
terrorists?"

"Because it's an invasion of my privacy!" I said.

"What's the big deal? Would you rather have privacy or terrorists?"

Agh. I hated arguing with my dad like this. I needed a coffee. "Dad,
come on. Taking away our privacy isn't catching terrorists: it's just
inconveniencing normal people."

"How do you know it's not catching terrorists?"

"Where are the terrorists they've caught?"

"I'm sure we'll see arrests in good time. You just wait."

"Dad, what the hell has happened to you since last night? You were
ready to go nuclear on the cops for pulling you over --"

"Don't use that tone with me, Marcus. What's happened since last night
is that I've had the chance to think it over and to read *this*." He
rattled his paper. "The reason they caught me is that the bad guys are
actively jamming them. They need to adjust their techniques to overcome
the jamming. But they'll get there. Meanwhile the occasional road stop
is a small price to pay. This isn't the time to be playing lawyer about
the Bill of Rights. This is the time to make some sacrifices to keep
our city safe."

I couldn't finish my toast. I put the plate in the dishwasher and left
for school. I had to get out of there.



The Xnetters weren't happy about the stepped up police surveillance,
but they weren't going to take it lying down. Someone called a phone-in
show on KQED and told them that the police were wasting their time,
that we could monkeywrench the system faster than they could untangle
it. The recording was a top Xnet download that night.

"This is California Live and we're talking to an anonymous caller at a
payphone in San Francisco. He has his own information about the
slowdowns we've been facing around town this week. Caller, you're on
the air."

"Yeah, yo, this is just the beginning, you know? I mean, like, we're
just getting started. Let them hire a billion pigs and put a checkpoint
on every corner. We'll jam them all! And like, all this crap about
terrorists? We're not terrorists! Give me a break, I mean, really!
We're jamming up the system because we hate the Homeland Security, and
because we love our city. Terrorists? I can't even spell jihad. Peace
out."

He sounded like an idiot. Not just the incoherent words, but also his
gloating tone. He sounded like a kid who was indecently proud of
himself. He *was* a kid who was indecently proud of himself.

The Xnet flamed out over this. Lots of people thought he was an idiot
for calling in, while others thought he was a hero. I worried that
there was probably a camera aimed at the payphone he'd used. Or an
arphid reader that might have sniffed his Fast Pass. I hoped he'd had
the smarts to wipe his fingerprints off the quarter, keep his hood up,
and leave all his arphids at home. But I doubted it. I wondered if he'd
get a knock on the door sometime soon.

The way I knew when something big had happened on Xnet was that I'd
suddenly get a million emails from people who wanted M1k3y to know
about the latest haps. It was just as I was reading about Mr
Can't-Spell-Jihad that my mailbox went crazy. Everyone had a message
for me -- a link to a livejournal on the Xnet -- one of the many
anonymous blogs that were based on the Freenet document publishing
system that was also used by Chinese democracy advocates.

> Close call

> We were jamming at the Embarcadero tonite and goofing around giving
> everyone a new car key or door key or Fast Pass or FasTrak, tossing
> around a little fake gunpowder. There were cops everywhere but we
> were smarter than them; we're there pretty much every night and we
> never get caught.

> So we got caught tonight. It was a stupid mistake we got sloppy we
> got busted. It was an undercover who caught my pal and then got the
> rest of us. They'd been watching the crowd for a long time and they
> had one of those trucks nearby and they took four of us in but missed
> the rest.

> The truck was JAMMED like a can of sardines with every kind of
> person, old young black white rich poor all suspects, and there were
> two cops trying to ask us questions and the undercovers kept bringing
> in more of us. Most people were trying to get to the front of the
> line to get through questioning so we kept on moving back and it was
> like hours in there and really hot and it was getting more crowded
> not less.

> At like 8PM they changed shifts and two new cops came in and bawled
> out the two cops who were there all like wtf? aren't you doing
> anything here. They had a real fight and then the two old cops left
> and the new cops sat down at their desks and whispered to each other
> for a while.

> Then one cop stood up and started shouting EVERYONE JUST GO HOME
> JESUS CHRIST WE'VE GOT BETTER THINGS TO DO THAN BOTHER YOU WITH MORE
> QUESTIONS IF YOU'VE DONE SOMETHING WRONG JUST DON'T DO IT AGAIN AND
> LET THIS BE A WARNING TO YOU ALL.

> A bunch of the suits got really pissed which was HILARIOUS because I
> mean ten minutes before they were buggin about being held there and
> now they were wicked pissed about being let go, like make up your
> minds!

> We split fast though and got out and came home to write this. There
> are undercovers everywhere, believe. If you're jamming, be open-eyed
> and get ready to run when problems happen. If you get caught try to
> wait it out they're so busy they'll maybe just let you go. 

> We made them that busy! All those people in that truck were there
> because we'd jammed them. So jam on! 

I felt like I was going to throw up. Those four people -- kids I'd
never met -- they nearly went away forever because of something I'd
started.

Because of something I'd told them to do. I was no better than a
terrorist.



The DHS got their budget requisition approved. The President went on TV
with the Governor to tell us that no price was too high for security.
We had to watch it the next day in school at assembly. My Dad cheered.
He'd hated the President since the day he was elected, saying he wasn't
any better than the last guy and the last guy had been a complete
disaster, but now all he could do was talk about how decisive and
dynamic the new guy was.

"You have to take it easy on your father," Mom said to me one night
after I got home from school. She'd been working from home as much as
possible. Mom's a freelance relocation specialist who helps British
people get settled in in San Francisco. The UK High Commission pays her
to answer emails from mystified British people across the country who
are totally confused by how freaky we Americans are. She explains
Americans for a living, and she said that these days it was better to
do that from home, where she didn't have to actually see any Americans
or talk to them.

I don't have any illusions about Britain. America may be willing to
trash its Constitution every time some Jihadist looks cross-eyed at us,
but as I learned in my ninth-grade Social Studies independent project,
the Brits don't even *have* a Constitution. They've got laws there that
would curl the hair on your toes: they can put you in jail for an
entire year if they're really sure that you're a terrorist but don't
have enough evidence to prove it. Now, how sure can they be if they
don't have enough evidence to prove it? How'd they get that sure? Did
they see you committing terrorist acts in a really vivid dream?

And the surveillance in Britain makes America look like amateur hour.
The average Londoner is photographed 500 times a day, just walking
around the streets. Every license plate is photographed at every corner
in the country. Everyone from the banks to the public transit company
is enthusiastic about tracking you and snitching on you if they think
you're remotely suspicious.

But Mom didn't see it that way. She'd left Britain halfway through high
school and she'd never felt at home here, no matter that she'd married
a boy from Petaluma and raised a son here. To her, this was always the
land of barbarians, and Britain would always be home.

"Mom, he's just wrong. You of all people should know that. Everything
that makes this country great is being flushed down the toilet and he's
going along with it. Have you noticed that they haven't *caught any
terrorists*? Dad's all like, 'We need to be safe,' but he needs to know
that most of us don't feel safe. We feel endangered all the time."

"I know this all, Marcus. Believe me, I'm not fan of what's been
happening to this country. But your father is --" She broke off. "When
you didn't come home after the attacks, he thought --"

She got up and made herself a cup of tea, something she did whenever
she was uncomfortable or disconcerted.

"Marcus," she said. "Marcus, we thought you were dead. Do you
understand that? We were mourning you for days. We were imagining you
blown to bits, at the bottom of the ocean. Dead because some bastard
decided to kill hundreds of strangers to make some point."

That sank in slowly. I mean, I understood that they'd been worried.
Lots of people died in the bombings -- four thousand was the present
estimate -- and practically everyone knew someone who didn't come home
that day. There were two people from my school who had disappeared.

"Your father was ready to kill someone. Anyone. He was out of his mind.
You've never seen him like this. I've never seen him like it either. He
was out of his mind. He'd just sit at this table and curse and curse
and curse. Vile words, words I'd never heard him say. One day -- the
third day -- someone called and he was sure it was you, but it was a
wrong number and he threw the phone so hard it disintegrated into
thousands of pieces." I'd wondered about the new kitchen phone.

"Something broke in your father. He loves you. We both love you. You
are the most important thing in our lives. I don't think you realize
that. Do you remember when you were ten, when I went home to London for
all that time? Do you remember?"

I nodded silently.

"We were ready to get a divorce, Marcus. Oh, it doesn't matter why
anymore. It was just a bad patch, the kind of thing that happens when
people who love each other stop paying attention for a few years. He
came and got me and convinced me to come back for you. We couldn't bear
the thought of doing that to you. We fell in love again for you. We're
together today because of you."

I had a lump in my throat. I'd never known this. No one had ever told
me.

"So your father is having a hard time right now. He's not in his right
mind. It's going to take some time before he comes back to us, before
he's the man I love again. We need to understand him until then."

She gave me a long hug, and I noticed how thin her arms had gotten, how
saggy the skin on her neck was. I always thought of my mother as young,
pale, rosy-cheeked and cheerful, peering shrewdly through her metal-rim
glasses. Now she looked a little like an old woman. I had done that to
her. The terrorists had done that to her. The Department of Homeland
Security had done that to her. In a weird way, we were all on the same
side, and Mom and Dad and all those people we'd spoofed were on the
other side.



I couldn't sleep that night. Mom's words kept running through my head.
Dad had been tense and quiet at dinner and we'd barely spoken, because
I didn't trust myself not to say the wrong thing and because he was all
wound up over the latest news, that Al Qaeda was definitely responsible
for the bombing. Six different terrorist groups had claimed
responsibility for the attack, but only Al Qaeda's Internet video
disclosed information that the DHS said they hadn't disclosed to
anyone.

I lay in bed and listened to a late-night call-in radio show. The topic
was sex problems, with this gay guy who I normally loved to listen to,
he would give people such raw advice, but good advice, and he was
really funny and campy.

Tonight I couldn't laugh. Most of the callers wanted to ask what to do
about the fact that they were having a hard time getting busy with
their partners ever since the attack. Even on sex-talk radio, I
couldn't get away from the topic.

I switched the radio off and heard a purring engine on the street
below.

My bedroom is in the top floor of our house, one of the painted ladies.
I have a sloping attic ceiling and windows on both sides -- one
overlooks the whole Mission, the other looks out into the street in
front of our place. There were often cars cruising at all hours of the
night, but there was something different about this engine noise.

I went to the street-window and pulled up my blinds. Down on the street
below me was a white, unmarked van whose roof was festooned with radio
antennas, more antennas than I'd ever seen on a car. It was cruising
very slowly down the street, a little dish on top spinning around and
around.

As I watched, the van stopped and one of the back doors popped open. A
guy in a DHS uniform -- I could spot one from a hundred yards now --
stepped out into the street. He had some kind of handheld device, and
its blue glow lit his face. He paced back and forth, first scouting my
neighbors, making notes on his device, then heading for me. There was
something familiar in the way he walked, looking down --

He was using a wifinder! The DHS was scouting for Xnet nodes. I let go
of the blinds and dove across my room for my Xbox. I'd left it up while
I downloaded some cool animations one of the Xnetters had made of the
President's no-price-too-high speech. I yanked the plug out of the
wall, then scurried back to the window and cracked the blind a fraction
of an inch.

The guy was looking down into his wifinder again, walking back and
forth in front of our house. A moment later, he got back into his van
and drove away.

I got out my camera and took as many pictures as I could of the van and
its antennas. Then I opened them in a free image-editor called The GIMP
and edited out everything from the photo except the van, erasing my
street and anything that might identify me.

I posted them to Xnet and wrote down everything I could about the vans.
These guys were definitely looking for the Xnet, I could tell.

Now I really couldn't sleep.

Nothing for it but to play wind-up pirates. There'd be lots of players
even at this hour. The real name for wind-up pirates was Clockwork
Plunder, and it was a hobbyist project that had been created by
teenaged death-metal freaks from Finland. It was totally free to play,
and offered just as much fun as any of the $15/month services like
Ender's Universe and Middle Earth Quest and Discworld Dungeons.

I logged back in and there I was, still on the deck of the Zombie
Charger, waiting for someone to wind me up. I hated this part of the
game.

> Hey you

I typed to a passing pirate.

> Wind me up?

He paused and looked at me.

> y should i?

> We're on the same team. Plus you get experience points.

What a jerk.

> Where are you located?

> San Francisco

This was starting to feel familiar.

> Where in San Francisco?

I logged out. There was something weird going on in the game. I jumped
onto the livejournals and began to crawl from blog to blog. I got
through half a dozen before I found something that froze my blood.

Livejournallers love quizzes. What kind of hobbit are you? Are you a
great lover? What planet are you most like? Which character from some
movie are you? What's your emotional type? They fill them in and their
friends fill them in and everyone compares their results. Harmless fun.

But the quiz that had taken over the blogs of the Xnet that night was
what scared me, because it was anything but harmless:

* What's your sex

* What grade are you in?

* What school do you go to?

* Where in the city do you live?

The quizzes plotted the results on a map with colored pushpins for
schools and neighborhoods, and made lame recommendations for places to
buy pizza and stuff.

But look at those questions. Think about my answers:

* Male

* 12

* Chavez High

* Potrero Hill

There were only two people in my whole school who matched that profile.
Most schools it would be the same. If you wanted to figure out who the
Xnetters were, you could use these quizzes to find them all.

That was bad enough, but what was worse was what it implied: someone
from the DHS was using the Xnet to get at us. The Xnet was compromised
by the DHS.

We had spies in our midst.



I'd given Xnet discs to hundreds of people, and they'd done the same. I
knew the people I gave the discs to pretty well. Some of them I knew
very well. I've lived in the same house all my life and I've made
hundreds and hundreds of friends over the years, from people who went
to daycare with me to people I played soccer with, people who LARPed
with me, people I met clubbing, people I knew from school. My ARG team
were my closest friends, but there were plenty of people I knew and
trusted enough to hand an Xnet disc to.

I needed them now.

I woke Jolu up by ringing his cell phone and hanging up after the first
ring, three times in a row. A minute later, he was up on Xnet and we
were able to have a secure chat. I pointed him to my blog-post on the
radio vans and he came back a minute later all freaked out.

> You sure they're looking for us?

In response I sent him to the quiz.

> OMG we're doomed

> No it's not that bad but we need to figure out who we can trust

> How?

> That's what I wanted to ask you -- how many people can you totally
> vouch for like trust them to the ends of the earth?

> Um 20 or 30 or so

> I want to get a bunch of really trustworthy people together and do a
> key-exchange web of trust thing

Web of trust is one of those cool crypto things that I'd read about but
never tried. It was a nearly foolproof way to make sure that you could
talk to the people you trusted, but that no one else could listen in.
The problem is that it requires you to physically meet with the people
in the web at least once, just to get started.

> I get it sure. That's not bad. But how you going to get everyone
> together for the key-signing?

> That's what I wanted to ask you about -- how can we do it without
> getting busted?

Jolu typed some words and erased them, typed more and erased them.

> Darryl would know

I typed.

> God, this was the stuff he was great at.

Jolu didn't type anything. Then,

> How about a party?

he typed.

> How about if we all get together somewhere like we're teenagers
> having a party and that way we'll have a ready-made excuse if anyone
> shows up asking us what we're doing there?

> That would totally work! You're a genius, Jolu.

> I know it. And you're going to love this: I know just where to do it,
> too

> Where?

> Sutro baths!

&&&

Chapter 10

[[This chapter is dedicated to Anderson's Bookshops, Chicago's
legendary kids' bookstore. Anderson's is an old, old family-run
business, which started out as an old-timey drug-store selling some
books on the side. Today, it's a booming, multi-location kids' book
empire, with some incredibly innovative bookselling practices that get
books and kids together in really exciting ways. The best of these is
the store's mobile book-fairs, in which they ship huge, rolling
bookcases, already stocked with excellent kids' books, direct to
schools on trucks -- voila, instant book-fair!]]

[[Anderson's Bookshops
http://www.andersonsbookshop.com/search.php?qkey2=doctorow+little+
brother&sid=5156&imageField.x=0&imageField.y=0 123 West Jefferson,
Naperville, IL 60540 USA +1 630 355 2665]]

What would you do if you found out you had a spy in your midst? You
could denounce him, put him up against the wall and take him out. But
then you might end up with another spy in your midst, and the new spy
would be more careful than the last one and maybe not get caught quite
so readily.

Here's a better idea: start intercepting the spy's communications and
feed him and his masters misinformation. Say his masters instruct him
to gather information on your movements. Let him follow you around and
take all the notes he wants, but steam open the envelopes that he sends
back to HQ and replace his account of your movements with a fictitious
one. If you want, you can make him seem erratic and unreliable so they
get rid of him. You can manufacture crises that might make one side or
the other reveal the identities of other spies. In short, you own them.

This is called the man-in-the-middle attack and if you think about it,
it's pretty scary. Someone who man-in-the-middles your communications
can trick you in any of a thousand ways.

Of course, there's a great way to get around the man-in-the-middle
attack: use crypto. With crypto, it doesn't matter if the enemy can see
your messages, because he can't decipher them, change them, and re-send
them. That's one of the main reasons to use crypto.

But remember: for crypto to work, you need to have keys for the people
you want to talk to. You and your partner need to share a secret or
two, some keys that you can use to encrypt and decrypt your messages so
that men-in-the-middle get locked out.

That's where the idea of public keys comes in. This is a little hairy,
but it's so unbelievably elegant too.

In public key crypto, each user gets two keys. They're long strings of
mathematical gibberish, and they have an almost magic property.
Whatever you scramble with one key, the other will unlock, and
vice-versa. What's more, they're the *only* keys that can do this -- if
you can unscramble a message with one key, you *know* it was scrambled
with the other (and vice-versa).

So you take either one of these keys (it doesn't matter which one) and
you just *publish* it. You make it a total *non-secret*. You want
anyone in the world to know what it is. For obvious reasons, they call
this your "public key."

The other key, you hide in the darkest reaches of your mind. You
protect it with your life. You never let anyone ever know what it is.
That's called your "private key." (Duh.)

Now say you're a spy and you want to talk with your bosses. Their
public key is known by everyone. Your public key is known by everyone.
No one knows your private key but you. No one knows their private key
but them.

You want to send them a message. First, you encrypt it with your
private key. You could just send that message along, and it would work
pretty well, since they would know when the message arrived that it
came from you. How? Because if they can decrypt it with your public
key, it can *only* have been encrypted with your private key. This is
the equivalent of putting your seal or signature on the bottom of a
message. It says, "I wrote this, and no one else. No one could have
tampered with it or changed it."

Unfortunately, this won't actually keep your message a *secret*. That's
because your public key is really well known (it has to be, or you'll
be limited to sending messages to those few people who have your public
key). Anyone who intercepts the message can read it. They can't change
it and make it seem like it came from you, but if you don't want people
to know what you're saying, you need a better solution.

So instead of just encrypting the message with your private key, you
*also* encrypt it with your boss's public key. Now it's been locked
twice. The first lock -- the boss's public key -- only comes off when
combined with your boss's private key. The second lock -- your private
key -- only comes off with your public key. When your bosses receive
the message, they unlock it with both keys and now they know for sure
that: a) you wrote it and b) that only they can read it.

It's very cool. The day I discovered it, Darryl and I immediately
exchanged keys and spent months cackling and rubbing our hands as we
exchanged our military-grade secret messages about where to meet after
school and whether Van would ever notice him.

But if you want to understand security, you need to consider the most
paranoid possibilities. Like, what if I tricked you into thinking that
*my* public key was your boss's public key? You'd encrypt the message
with your private key and my public key. I'd decrypt it, read it,
re-encrypt it with your boss's *real* public key and send it on. As far
as your boss knows, no one but you could have written the message and
no one but him could have read it.

And I get to sit in the middle, like a fat spider in a web, and all
your secrets belong to me.

Now, the easiest way to fix this is to really widely advertise your
public key. If it's *really* easy for anyone to know what your real key
is, man-in-the-middle gets harder and harder. But you know what? Making
things well-known is just as hard as keeping them secret. Think about
it -- how many billions of dollars are spent on shampoo ads and other
crap, just to make sure that as many people know about something that
some advertiser wants them to know?

There's a cheaper way of fixing man-in-the-middle: the web of trust.
Say that before you leave HQ, you and your bosses sit down over coffee
and actually tell each other your keys. No more man-in-the-middle!
You're absolutely certain whose keys you have, because they were put
into your own hands.

So far, so good. But there's a natural limit to this: how many people
can you physically meet with and swap keys? How many hours in the day
do you want to devote to the equivalent of writing your own phone book?
How many of those people are willing to devote that kind of time to
you?

Thinking about this like a phonebook helps. The world was once a place
with a lot of phonebooks, and when you needed a number, you could look
it up in the book. But for many of the numbers that you wanted to refer
to on a given day, you would either know it by heart, or you'd be able
to ask someone else. Even today, when I'm out with my cell-phone, I'll
ask Jolu or Darryl if they have a number I'm looking for. It's faster
and easier than looking it up online and they're more reliable, too. If
Jolu has a number, I trust him, so I trust the number, too. That's
called "transitive trust" -- trust that moves across the web of our
relationships.

A web of trust is a bigger version of this. Say I meet Jolu and get his
key. I can put it on my "keyring" -- a list of keys that I've signed
with my private key. That means you can unlock it with my public key
and know for sure that me -- or someone with my key, anyway -- says
that "this key belongs to this guy."

So I hand you my keyring and provided that you trust me to have
actually met and verified all the keys on it, you can take it and add
it to your keyring. Now, you meet someone else and you hand the whole
ring to him. Bigger and bigger the ring grows, and provided that you
trust the next guy in the chain, and he trusts the next guy in his
chain and so on, you're pretty secure.

Which brings me to keysigning parties. These are *exactly* what they
sound like: a party where everyone gets together and signs everyone
else's keys. Darryl and I, when we traded keys, that was kind of a
mini-keysigning party, one with only two sad and geeky attendees. But
with more people, you create the seed of the web of trust, and the web
can expand from there. As everyone on your keyring goes out into the
world and meets more people, they can add more and more names to the
ring. You don't have to meet the new people, just trust that the signed
key you get from the people in your web is valid.

So that's why web of trust and parties go together like peanut butter
and chocolate.



"Just tell them it's a super-private party, invitational only," I said.
"Tell them not to bring anyone along or they won't be admitted."

Jolu looked at me over his coffee. "You're joking, right? You tell
people that, and they'll bring *extra* friends."

"Argh," I said. I spent a night a week at Jolu's these days, keeping
the code up to date on indienet. Pigspleen actually paid me a non-zero
sum of money to do this, which was really weird. I never thought I'd be
paid to write code.

"So what do we do? We only want people we really trust there, and we
don't want to mention why until we've got everyone's keys and can send
them messages in secret."

Jolu debugged and I watched over his shoulder. This used to be called
"extreme programming," which was a little embarrassing. Now we just
call it "programming." Two people are much better at spotting bugs than
one. As the cliche goes, "With enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow."

We were working our way through the bug reports and getting ready to
push out the new rev. It all auto-updated in the background, so our
users didn't really need to do anything, they just woke up once a week
or so with a better program. It was pretty freaky to know that the code
I wrote would be used by hundreds of thousands of people, *tomorrow*!

"What do we do? Man, I don't know. I think we just have to live with
it."

I thought back to our Harajuku Fun Madness days. There were lots of
social challenges involving large groups of people as part of that
game.

"OK, you're right. But let's at least try to keep this secret. Tell
them that they can bring a maximum of one person, and it has to be
someone they've known personally for a minimum of five years."

Jolu looked up from the screen. "Hey," he said. "Hey, that would
totally work. I can really see it. I mean, if you told me not to bring
anyone, I'd be all, 'Who the hell does he think he is?' But when you
put it that way, it sounds like some awesome 007 stuff."

I found a bug. We drank some coffee. I went home and played a little
Clockwork Plunder, trying not to think about key-winders with nosy
questions, and slept like a baby.



Sutro baths are San Francisco's authentic fake Roman ruins. When it
opened in 1896, it was the largest indoor bathing house in the world, a
huge Victorian glass solarium filled with pools and tubs and even an
early water slide. It went downhill by the fifties, and the owners
torched it for the insurance in 1966. All that's left is a labyrinth of
weathered stone set into the sere cliff-face at Ocean Beach. It looks
for all the world like a Roman ruin, crumbled and mysterious, and just
beyond them is a set of caves that let out into the sea. In rough
tides, the waves rush through the caves and over the ruins -- they've
even been known to suck in and drown the occasional tourist.

Ocean Beach is way out past Golden Gate park, a stark cliff lined with
expensive, doomed houses, plunging down to a narrow beach studded with
jellyfish and brave (insane) surfers. There's a giant white rock that
juts out of the shallows off the shore. That's called Seal Rock, and it
used to be the place where the sea lions congregated until they were
relocated to the more tourist-friendly environs of Fisherman's Wharf.

After dark, there's hardly anyone out there. It gets very cold, with a
salt spray that'll soak you to your bones if you let it. The rocks are
sharp and there's broken glass and the occasional junkie needle.

It is an awesome place for a party.

Bringing along the tarpaulins and chemical glove-warmers was my idea.
Jolu figured out where to get the beer -- his older brother, Javier,
had a buddy who actually operated a whole underage drinking service:
pay him enough and he'd back up to your secluded party spot with
ice-chests and as many brews as you wanted. I blew a bunch of my
indienet programming money, and the guy showed up right on time: 8PM, a
good hour after sunset, and lugged the six foam ice-chests out of his
pickup truck and down into the ruins of the baths. He even brought a
spare chest for the empties.

"You kids play safe now," he said, tipping his cowboy hat. He was a fat
Samoan guy with a huge smile, and a scary tank-top that you could see
his armpit- and belly- and shoulder-hair escaping from. I peeled
twenties off my roll and handed them to him -- his markup was 150
percent. Not a bad racket.

He looked at my roll. "You know, I could just take that from you," he
said, still smiling. "I'm a criminal, after all."

I put my roll in my pocket and looked him levelly in the eye. I'd been
stupid to show him what I was carrying, but I knew that there were
times when you should just stand your ground.

"I'm just messing with you," he said, at last. "But you be careful with
that money. Don't go showing it around."

"Thanks," I said. "Homeland Security'll get my back though."

His smile got even bigger. "Ha! They're not even real five-oh. Those
peckerwoods don't know nothin'."

I looked over at his truck. Prominently displayed in his windscreen was
a FasTrak. I wondered how long it would be until he got busted.

"You got girls coming tonight? That why you got all the beer?"

I smiled and waved at him as though he was walking back to his truck,
which he should have been doing. He eventually got the hint and drove
away. His smile never faltered.

Jolu helped me hide the coolers in the rubble, working with little
white LED torches on headbands. Once the coolers were in place, we
threw little white LED keychains into each one, so it would glow when
you took the styrofoam lids off, making it easier to see what you were
doing.

It was a moonless night and overcast, and the distant streetlights
barely illuminated us. I knew we'd stand out like blazes on an infrared
scope, but there was no chance that we'd be able to get a bunch of
people together without being observed. I'd settle for being dismissed
as a little drunken beach-party.

I don't really drink much. There's been beer and pot and ecstasy at the
parties I've been going to since I was 14, but I hated smoking (though
I'm quite partial to a hash brownie every now and again), ecstasy took
too long -- who's got a whole weekend to get high and come down -- and
beer, well, it was all right, but I didn't see what the big deal was.
My favorite was big, elaborate cocktails, the kind of thing served in a
ceramic volcano, with six layers, on fire, and a plastic monkey on the
rim, but that was mostly for the theater of it all.

I actually like being drunk. I just don't like being hungover, and boy,
do I ever get hungover. Though again, that might have to do with the
kind of drinks that come in a ceramic volcano.

But you can't throw a party without putting a case or two of beer on
ice. It's expected. It loosens things up. People do stupid things after
too many beers, but it's not like my friends are the kind of people who
have cars. And people do stupid things no matter what -- beer or grass
or whatever are all incidental to that central fact.

Jolu and I each cracked beers -- Anchor Steam for him, a Bud Lite for
me -- and clinked the bottles together, sitting down on a rock.

"You told them 9PM?"

"Yeah," he said.

"Me too."

We drank in silence. The Bud Lite was the least alcoholic thing in the
ice-chest. I'd need a clear head later.

"You ever get scared?" I said, finally.

He turned to me. "No man, I don't get scared. I'm always scared. I've
been scared since the minute the explosions happened. I'm so scared
sometimes, I don't want to get out of bed."

"Then why do you do it?"

He smiled. "About that," he said. "Maybe I won't, not for much longer.
I mean, it's been great helping you. Great. Really excellent. I don't
know when I've done anything so important. But Marcus, bro, I have to
say. . ." He trailed off.

"What?" I said, though I knew what was coming next.

"I can't do it forever," he said at last. "Maybe not even for another
month. I think I'm through. It's too much risk. The DHS, you can't go
to war on them. It's crazy. Really actually crazy."

"You sound like Van," I said. My voice was much more bitter than I'd
intended.

"I'm not criticizing you, man. I think it's great that you've got the
bravery to do this all the time. But I haven't got it. I can't live my
life in perpetual terror."

"What are you saying?"

"I'm saying I'm out. I'm going to be one of those people who acts like
it's all OK, like it'll all go back to normal some day. I'm going to
use the Internet like I always did, and only use the Xnet to play
games. I'm going to get out is what I'm saying. I won't be a part of
your plans anymore."

I didn't say anything.

"I know that's leaving you on your own. I don't want that, believe me.
I'd much rather you give up with me. You can't declare war on the
government of the USA. It's not a fight you're going to win. Watching
you try is like watching a bird fly into a window again and again."

He wanted me to say something. What *I* wanted to say was, *Jesus Jolu,
thanks so very much for abandoning me! Do you forget what it was like
when they took us away? Do you forget what the country used to be like
before they took it over?* But that's not what he wanted me to say.
What he wanted me to say was:

"I understand, Jolu. I respect your choice."

He drank the rest of his bottle and pulled out another one and twisted
off the cap.

"There's something else," he said.

"What?"

"I wasn't going to mention it, but I want you to understand why I have
to do this."

"Jesus, Jolu, *what*?"

"I hate to say it, but you're *white*. I'm not. White people get caught
with cocaine and do a little rehab time. Brown people get caught with
crack and go to prison for twenty years. White people see cops on the
street and feel safer. Brown people see cops on the street and wonder
if they're about to get searched. The way the DHS is treating you? The
law in this country has always been like that for us."

It was so unfair. I didn't ask to be white. I didn't think I was being
braver just because I'm white. But I knew what Jolu was saying. If the
cops stopped someone in the Mission and asked to see some ID, chances
were that person wasn't white. Whatever risk I ran, Jolu ran more.
Whatever penalty I'd pay, Jolu would pay more.

"I don't know what to say," I said.

"You don't have to say anything," he said. "I just wanted you to know,
so you could understand."

I could see people walking down the side trail toward us. They were
friends of Jolu's, two Mexican guys and a girl I knew from around,
short and geeky, always wearing cute black Buddy Holly glasses that
made her look like the outcast art-student in a teen movie who comes
back as the big success.

Jolu introduced me and gave them beers. The girl didn't take one, but
instead produced a small silver flask of vodka from her purse and
offered me a drink. I took a swallow -- warm vodka must be an acquired
taste -- and complimented her on the flask, which was embossed with a
repeating motif of Parappa the Rapper characters.

"It's Japanese," she said as I played another LED keyring over it.
"They have all these great booze-toys based on kids' games. Totally
twisted."

I introduced myself and she introduced herself. "Ange," she said, and
shook my hand with hers -- dry, warm, with short nails. Jolu introduced
me to his pals, whom he'd known since computer camp in the fourth
grade. More people showed up -- five, then ten, then twenty. It was a
seriously big group now.

We'd told people to arrive by 9:30 sharp, and we gave it until 9:45 to
see who all would show up. About three quarters were Jolu's friends.
I'd invited all the people I really trusted. Either I was more
discriminating than Jolu or less popular. Now that he'd told me he was
quitting, it made me think that he was less discriminating. I was
really pissed at him, but trying not to let it show by concentrating on
socializing with other people. But he wasn't stupid. He knew what was
going on. I could see that he was really bummed. Good.

"OK," I said, climbing up on a ruin, "OK, hey, hello?" A few people
nearby paid attention to me, but the ones in the back kept on chatting.
I put my arms in the air like a referee, but it was too dark.
Eventually I hit on the idea of turning my LED keychain on and pointing
it at each of the talkers in turn, then at me. Gradually, the crowd
fell quiet.

I welcomed them and thanked them all for coming, then asked them to
close in so I could explain why we were there. I could tell they were
into the secrecy of it all, intrigued and a little warmed up by the
beer.

"So here it is. You all use the Xnet. It's no coincidence that the Xnet
was created right after the DHS took over the city. The people who did
that are an organization devoted to personal liberty, who created the
network to keep us safe from DHS spooks and enforcers." Jolu and I had
worked this out in advance. We weren't going to cop to being behind it
all, not to anyone. It was way too risky. Instead, we'd put it out that
we were merely lieutenants in "M1k3y"'s army, acting to organize the
local resistance.

"The Xnet isn't pure," I said. "It can be used by the other side just
as readily as by us. We know that there are DHS spies who use it now.
They use social engineering hacks to try to get us to reveal ourselves
so that they can bust us. If the Xnet is going to succeed, we need to
figure out how to keep them from spying on us. We need a network within
the network."

I paused and let this sink in. Jolu had suggested that this might be a
little heavy -- learning that you're about to be brought into a
revolutionary cell.

"Now, I'm not here to ask you to do anything active. You don't have to
go out jamming or anything. You've been brought here because we know
you're cool, we know you're trustworthy. It's that trustworthiness I
want to get you to contribute tonight. Some of you will already be
familiar with the web of trust and keysigning parties, but for the rest
of you, I'll run it down quickly --" Which I did.

"Now what I want from you tonight is to meet the people here and figure
out how much you can trust them. We're going to help you generate
key-pairs and share them with each other."

This part was tricky. Asking people to bring their own laptops wouldn't
have worked out, but we still needed to do something hella complicated
that wouldn't exactly work with paper and pencil.

I held up a laptop Jolu and I had rebuilt the night before, from the
ground up. "I trust this machine. Every component in it was laid by our
own hands. It's running a fresh out-of-the-box version of
ParanoidLinux, booted off of the DVD. If there's a trustworthy computer
left anywhere in the world, this might well be it.

"I've got a key-generator loaded here. You come up here and give it
some random input -- mash the keys, wiggle the mouse -- and it will use
that as the seed to create a random public- and private key for you,
which it will display on the screen. You can take a picture of the
private key with your phone, and hit any key to make it go away forever
-- it's not stored on the disk at all. Then it will show you your
public key. At that point, you call over all the people here you trust
and who trust you, and *they* take a picture of the screen with you
standing next to it, so they know whose key it is.

"When you get home, you have to convert the photos to keys. This is
going to be a lot of work, I'm afraid, but you'll only have to do it
once. You have to be super-careful about typing these in -- one mistake
and you're screwed. Luckily, we've got a way to tell if you've got it
right: beneath the key will be a much shorter number, called the
'fingerprint'. Once you've typed in the key, you can generate a
fingerprint from it and compare it to the fingerprint, and if they
match, you've got it right."

They all boggled at me. OK, so I'd asked them to do something pretty
weird, it's true, but still.


&&&

Chapter 11

[[This chapter is dedicated to the University Bookstore at the
University of Washington, whose science fiction section rivals many
specialty stores, thanks to the sharp-eyed, dedicated science fiction
buyer, Duane Wilkins. Duane's a real science fiction fan -- I first met
him at the World Science Fiction Convention in Toronto in 2003 -- and
it shows in the eclectic and informed choices on display at the store.
One great predictor of a great bookstore is the quality of the "shelf
review" -- the little bits of cardboard stuck to the shelves with
(generally hand-lettered) staff-reviews extolling the virtues of books
you might otherwise miss. The staff at the University Bookstore have
clearly benefited from Duane's tutelage, as the shelf reviews at the
University Bookstore are second to none.]]

[[The University Bookstore
http://www4.bookstore.washington.edu/_trade/ShowTitleUBS.taf?ActionArg=
Title&ISBN=9780765319852 4326 University Way NE, Seattle, WA 98105 USA
+1 800 335 READ]]

Jolu stood up.

"This is where it starts, guys. This is how we know which side you're
on. You might not be willing to take to the streets and get busted for
your beliefs, but if you *have* beliefs, this will let us know it. This
will create the web of trust that tells us who's in and who's out. If
we're ever going to get our country back, we need to do this. We need
to do something like this."

Someone in the audience -- it was Ange -- had a hand up, holding a beer
bottle.

"So call me stupid but I don't understand this at all. Why do you want
us to do this?"

Jolu looked at me, and I looked back at him. It had all seemed so
obvious when we were organizing it. "The Xnet isn't just a way to play
free games. It's the last open communications network in America. It's
the last way to communicate without being snooped on by the DHS. For it
to work we need to know that the person we're talking to isn't a snoop.
That means that we need to know that the people we're sending messages
to are the people we think they are.

"That's where you come in. You're all here because we trust you. I
mean, really trust you. Trust you with our lives."

Some of the people groaned. It sounded melodramatic and stupid.

I got back to my feet.

"When the bombs went off," I said, then something welled up in my
chest, something painful. "When the bombs went off, there were four of
us caught up by Market Street. For whatever reason, the DHS decided
that made us suspicious. They put bags over our heads, put us on a ship
and interrogated us for days. They humiliated us. Played games with our
minds. Then they let us go.

"All except one person. My best friend. He was with us when they picked
us up. He'd been hurt and he needed medical care. He never came out
again. They say they never saw him. They say that if we ever tell
anyone about this, they'll arrest us and make us disappear.

"Forever."

I was shaking. The shame. The goddamned shame. Jolu had the light on
me.

"Oh Christ," I said. "You people are the first ones I've told. If this
story gets around, you can bet they'll know who leaked it. You can bet
they'll come knocking on my door." I took some more deep breaths.
"That's why I volunteered on the Xnet. That's why my life, from now on,
is about fighting the DHS. With every breath. Every day. Until we're
free again. Any one of you could put me in jail now, if you wanted to."

Ange put her hand up again. "We're not going to rat on you," she said.
"No way. I know pretty much everyone here and I can promise you that. I
don't know how to know who to trust, but I know who *not* to trust: old
people. Our parents. Grownups. When they think of someone being spied
on, they think of someone *else*, a bad guy. When they think of someone
being caught and sent to a secret prison, it's someone *else* --
someone brown, someone young, someone foreign.

"They forget what it's like to be our age. To be the object of
suspicion *all the time*! How many times have you gotten on the bus and
had every person on it give you a look like you'd been gargling turds
and skinning puppies?

"What's worse, they're turning into adults younger and younger out
there. Back in the day, they used to say 'Never trust anyone over 30.'
I say, 'Don't trust any bastard over 25!'"

That got a laugh, and she laughed too. She was pretty, in a weird,
horsey way, with a long face and a long jaw. "I'm not really kidding,
you know? I mean, think about it. Who elected these ass-clowns? Who let
them invade our city? Who voted to put the cameras in our classrooms
and follow us around with creepy spyware chips in our transit passes
and cars? It wasn't a 16-year-old. We may be dumb, we may be young, but
we're not scum."

"I want that on a t-shirt," I said.

"It would be a good one," she said. We smiled at each other.

"Where do I go to get my keys?" she said, and pulled out her phone.

"We'll do it over there, in the secluded spot by the caves. I'll take
you in there and set you up, then you do your thing and take the
machine around to your friends to get photos of your public key so they
can sign it when they get home."

I raised my voice. "Oh! One more thing! Jesus, I can't believe I forgot
this. *Delete those photos once you've typed in the keys*! The last
thing we want is a Flickr stream full of pictures of all of us
conspiring together."

There was some good-natured, nervous chuckling, then Jolu turned out
the light and in the sudden darkness I could see nothing. Gradually, my
eyes adjusted and I set off for the cave. Someone was walking behind
me. Ange. I turned and smiled at her, and she smiled back, luminous
teeth in the dark.

"Thanks for that," I said. "You were great."

"You mean what you said about the bag on your head and everything?"

"I meant it," I said. "It happened. I never told anyone, but it
happened." I thought about it for a moment. "You know, with all the
time that went by since, without saying anything, it started to feel
like a bad dream. It was real though." I stopped and climbed up into
the cave. "I'm glad I finally told people. Any longer and I might have
started to doubt my own sanity."

I set up the laptop on a dry bit of rock and booted it from the DVD
with her watching. "I'm going to reboot it for every person. This is a
standard ParanoidLinux disc, though I guess you'd have to take my word
for it."

"Hell," she said. "This is all about trust, right?"

"Yeah," I said. "Trust."

I retreated some distance as she ran the key-generator, listening to
her typing and mousing to create randomness, listening to the crash of
the surf, listening to the party noises from over where the beer was.

She stepped out of the cave, carrying the laptop. On it, in huge white
luminous letters, were her public key and her fingerprint and email
address. She held the screen up beside her face and waited while I got
my phone out.

"Cheese," she said. I snapped her pic and dropped the camera back in my
pocket. She wandered off to the revelers and let them each get pics of
her and the screen. It was festive. Fun. She really had a lot of
charisma -- you didn't want to laugh at her, you just wanted to laugh
*with* her. And hell, it *was* funny! We were declaring a secret war on
the secret police. Who the hell did we think we were?

So it went, through the next hour or so, everyone taking pictures and
making keys. I got to meet everyone there. I knew a lot of them -- some
were my invitees -- and the others were friends of my pals or my pals'
pals. We should all be buddies. We were, by the time the night was out.
They were all good people.

Once everyone was done, Jolu went to make a key, and then turned away,
giving me a sheepish grin. I was past my anger with him, though. He was
doing what he had to do. I knew that no matter what he said, he'd
always be there for me. And we'd been through the DHS jail together.
Van too. No matter what, that would bind us together forever.

I did my key and did the perp-walk around the gang, letting everyone
snap a pic. Then I climbed up on the high spot I'd spoken from earlier
and called for everyone's attention.

"So a lot of you have noted that there's a vital flaw in this
procedure: what if this laptop can't be trusted? What if it's secretly
recording our instructions? What if it's spying on us? What if
Jose-Luis and I can't be trusted?"

More good-natured chuckles. A little warmer than before, more beery.

"I mean it," I said. "If we were on the wrong side, this could get all
of us -- all of *you* -- into a heap of trouble. Jail, maybe."

The chuckles turned more nervous.

"So that's why I'm going to do this," I said, and picked up a hammer
I'd brought from my Dad's toolkit. I set the laptop down beside me on
the rock and swung the hammer, Jolu following the swing with his
keychain light. Crash -- I'd always dreamt of killing a laptop with a
hammer, and here I was doing it. It felt pornographically good. And
bad.

Smash! The screen-panel fell off, shattered into millions of pieces,
exposing the keyboard. I kept hitting it, until the keyboard fell off,
exposing the motherboard and the hard-drive. Crash! I aimed square for
the hard-drive, hitting it with everything I had. It took three blows
before the case split, exposing the fragile media inside. I kept
hitting it until there was nothing bigger than a cigarette lighter,
then I put it all in a garbage bag. The crowd was cheering wildly --
loud enough that I actually got worried that someone far above us might
hear over the surf and call the law.

"All right!" I called. "Now, if you'd like to accompany me, I'm going
to march this down to the sea and soak it in salt water for ten
minutes."

I didn't have any takers at first, but then Ange came forward and took
my arm in her warm hand and said, "That was beautiful," in my ear and
we marched down to the sea together.

It was perfectly dark by the sea, and treacherous, even with our
keychain lights. Slippery, sharp rocks that were difficult enough to
walk on even without trying to balance six pounds of smashed
electronics in a plastic bag. I slipped once and thought I was going to
cut myself up, but she caught me with a surprisingly strong grip and
kept me upright. I was pulled in right close to her, close enough to
smell her perfume, which smelled like new cars. I love that smell.

"Thanks," I managed, looking into the big eyes that were further
magnified by her mannish, black-rimmed glasses. I couldn't tell what
color they were in the dark, but I guessed something dark, based on her
dark hair and olive complexion. She looked Mediterranean, maybe Greek
or Spanish or Italian.

I crouched down and dipped the bag in the sea, letting it fill with
salt water. I managed to slip a little and soak my shoe, and I swore
and she laughed. We'd hardly said a word since we lit out for the
ocean. There was something magical in our wordless silence.

At that point, I had kissed a total of three girls in my life, not
counting that moment when I went back to school and got a hero's
welcome. That's not a gigantic number, but it's not a minuscule one,
either. I have reasonable girl radar, and I think I could have kissed
her. She wasn't h4wt in the traditional sense, but there's something
about a girl and a night and a beach, plus she was smart and passionate
and committed.

But I didn't kiss her, or take her hand. Instead we had a moment that I
can only describe as spiritual. The surf, the night, the sea and the
rocks, and our breathing. The moment stretched. I sighed. This had been
quite a ride. I had a lot of typing to do tonight, putting all those
keys into my keychain, signing them and publishing the signed keys.
Starting the web of trust.

She sighed too.

"Let's go," I said.

"Yeah," she said.

Back we went. It was a good night, that night.



Jolu waited after for his brother's friend to come by and pick up his
coolers. I walked with everyone else up the road to the nearest Muni
stop and got on board. Of course, none of us was using an issued Muni
pass. By that point, Xnetters habitually cloned someone else's Muni
pass three or four times a day, assuming a new identity for every ride.

It was hard to stay cool on the bus. We were all a little drunk, and
looking at our faces under the bright bus lights was kind of hilarious.
We got pretty loud and the driver used his intercom to tell us to keep
it down twice, then told us to shut up right now or he'd call the cops.

That set us to giggling again and we disembarked in a mass before he
did call the cops. We were in North Beach now, and there were lots of
buses, taxis, the BART at Market Street, neon-lit clubs and cafes to
pull apart our grouping, so we drifted away.

I got home and fired up my Xbox and started typing in keys from my
phone's screen. It was dull, hypnotic work. I was a little drunk, and
it lulled me into a half-sleep.

I was about ready to nod off when a new IM window popped up.

> herro!

I didn't recognize the handle -- spexgril -- but I had an idea who
might be behind it.

> hi

I typed, cautiously.

> it's me, from tonight

Then she paste-bombed a block of crypto. I'd already entered her public
key into my keychain, so I told the IM client to try decrypting the
code with the key.

> it's me, from tonight

It was her!

> Fancy meeting you here

I typed, then encrypted it to my public key and mailed it off.

> It was great meeting you

I typed.

> You too. I don't meet too many smart guys who are also cute and also
> socially aware. Good god, man, you don't give a girl much of a
> chance.

My heart hammered in my chest.

> Hello? Tap tap? This thing on? I wasn't born here folks, but I'm sure
> dying here. Don't forget to tip your waitresses, they work hard. I'm
> here all week.

I laughed aloud.

> I'm here, I'm here. Laughing too hard to type is all

> Well at least my IM comedy-fu is still mighty

Um.

> It was really great to meet you too

> Yeah, it usually is. Where are you taking me?

> Taking you?

> On our next adventure?

> I didn't really have anything planned

> Oki -- then I'll take YOU. Saturday. Dolores Park. Illegal open air
> concert. Be there or be a dodecahedron

> Wait what?

> Don't you even read Xnet? It's all over the place. You ever hear of
> the Speedwhores?

I nearly choked. That was Trudy Doo's band -- as in Trudy Doo, the
woman who had paid me and Jolu to update the indienet code.

> Yeah I've heard of them

> They're putting on a huge show and they've got like fifty bands
> signed to play the bill, going to set up on the tennis courts and
> bring out their own amp trucks and rock out all night

I felt like I'd been living under a rock. How had I missed that? There
was an anarchist bookstore on Valencia that I sometimes passed on the
way to school that had a poster of an old revolutionary named Emma
Goldman with the caption "If I can't dance, I don't want to be a part
of your revolution." I'd been spending all my energies on figuring out
how to use the Xnet to organize dedicated fighters so they could jam
the DHS, but this was so much cooler. A big concert -- I had no idea
how to do one of those, but I was glad someone did.

And now that I thought of it, I was damned proud that they were using
the Xnet to do it.



The next day I was a zombie. Ange and I had chatted -- flirted -- until
4AM. Lucky for me, it was a Saturday and I was able to sleep in, but
between the hangover and the sleep-dep, I could barely put two thoughts
together.

By lunchtime, I managed to get up and get my ass out onto the streets.
I staggered down toward the Turk's to buy my coffee -- these days, if I
was alone, I always bought my coffee there, like the Turk and I were
part of a secret club.

On the way, I passed a lot of fresh graffiti. I liked Mission graffiti;
a lot of the times, it came in huge, luscious murals, or sarcastic
art-student stencils. I liked that the Mission's taggers kept right on
going, under the nose of the DHS. Another kind of Xnet, I supposed --
they must have all kinds of ways of knowing what was going on, where to
get paint, what cameras worked. Some of the cameras had been
spray-painted over, I noticed.

Maybe they used Xnet!

Painted in ten-foot-high letters on the side of an auto-yard's fence
were the drippy words: DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25.

I stopped. Had someone left my "party" last night and come here with a
can of paint? A lot of those people lived in the neighborhood.

I got my coffee and had a little wander around town. I kept thinking I
should be calling someone, seeing if they wanted to get a movie or
something. That's how it used to be on a lazy Saturday like this. But
who was I going to call? Van wasn't talking to me, I didn't think I was
ready to talk to Jolu, and Darryl --

Well, I couldn't call Darryl.

I got my coffee and went home and did a little searching around on the
Xnet's blogs. These anonablogs were untraceable to any author -- unless
that author was stupid enough to put her name on it -- and there were a
lot of them. Most of them were apolitical, but a lot of them weren't.
They talked about schools and the unfairness there. They talked about
the cops. Tagging.

Turned out there'd been plans for the concert in the park for weeks. It
had hopped from blog to blog, turning into a full-blown movement
without my noticing. And the concert was called Don't Trust Anyone Over
25.

Well, that explained where Ange got it. It was a good slogan.



Monday morning, I decided I wanted to check out that anarchist
bookstore again, see about getting one of those Emma Goldman posters. I
needed the reminder.

I detoured down to 16th and Mission on my way to school, then up to
Valencia and across. The store was shut, but I got the hours off the
door and made sure they still had that poster up.

As I walked down Valencia, I was amazed to see how much of the DON'T
TRUST ANYONE OVER 25 stuff there was. Half the shops had DON'T TRUST
merch in the windows: lunchboxes, babydoll tees, pencil-boxes, trucker
hats. The hipster stores have been getting faster and faster, of
course. As new memes sweep the net in the course of a day or two,
stores have gotten better at putting merch in the windows to match.
Some funny little youtube of a guy launching himself with jet-packs
made of carbonated water would land in your inbox on Monday and by
Tuesday you'd be able to buy t-shirts with stills from the video on it.

But it was amazing to see something make the leap from Xnet to the head
shops. Distressed designer jeans with the slogan written in careful
high school ball-point ink. Embroidered patches.

Good news travels fast.

It was written on the black-board when I got to Ms Galvez's Social
Studies class. We all sat at our desks, smiling at it. It seemed to
smile back. There was something profoundly cheering about the idea that
we could all trust each other, that the enemy could be identified. I
knew it wasn't entirely true, but it wasn't entirely false either.

Ms Galvez came in and patted her hair and set down her SchoolBook on
her desk and powered it up. She picked up her chalk and turned around
to face the board. We all laughed. Good-naturedly, but we laughed.

She turned around and was laughing too. "Inflation has hit the nation's
slogan-writers, it seems. How many of you know where this phrase comes
from?"

We looked at each other. "Hippies?" someone said, and we laughed.
Hippies are all over San Francisco, both the old stoner kinds with
giant skanky beards and tie-dyes, and the new kind, who are more into
dress-up and maybe playing hacky-sack than protesting anything.

"Well, yes, hippies. But when we think of hippies these days, we just
think of the clothes and the music. Clothes and music were incidental
to the main part of what made that era, the sixties, important.

"You've heard about the civil rights movement to end segregation, white
and black kids like you riding buses into the South to sign up black
voters and protest against official state racism. California was one of
the main places where the civil rights leaders came from. We've always
been a little more political than the rest of the country, and this is
also a part of the country where black people have been able to get the
same union factory jobs as white people, so they were a little better
off than their cousins in the southland.

"The students at Berkeley sent a steady stream of freedom riders south,
and they recruited them from information tables on campus, at Bancroft
and Telegraph Avenue. You've probably seen that there are still tables
there to this day.

"Well, the campus tried to shut them down. The president of the
university banned political organizing on campus, but the civil rights
kids wouldn't stop. The police tried to arrest a guy who was handing
out literature from one of these tables, and they put him in a van, but
3,000 students surrounded the van and refused to let it budge. They
wouldn't let them take this kid to jail. They stood on top of the van
and gave speeches about the First Amendment and Free Speech.

"That galvanized the Free Speech Movement. That was the start of the
hippies, but it was also where more radical student movements came
from. Black power groups like the Black Panthers -- and later gay
rights groups like the Pink Panthers, too. Radical women's groups, even
'lesbian separatists' who wanted to abolish men altogether! And the
Yippies. Anyone ever hear of the Yippies?"

"Didn't they levitate the Pentagon?" I said. I'd once seen a
documentary about this.

She laughed. "I forgot about that, but yes, that was them! Yippies were
like very political hippies, but they weren't serious the way we think
of politics these days. They were very playful. Pranksters. They threw
money into the New York Stock Exchange. They circled the Pentagon with
hundreds of protestors and said a magic spell that was supposed to
levitate it. They invented a fictional kind of LSD that you could spray
onto people with squirt-guns and shot each other with it and pretended
to be stoned. They were funny and they made great TV -- one Yippie, a
clown called Wavy Gravy, used to get hundreds of protestors to dress up
like Santa Claus so that the cameras would show police officers
arresting and dragging away Santa on the news that night -- and they
mobilized a lot of people.

"Their big moment was the Democratic National Convention in 1968, where
they called for demonstrations to protest the Vietnam War. Thousands of
demonstrators poured into Chicago, slept in the parks, and picketed
every day. They had lots of bizarre stunts that year, like running a
pig called Pigasus for the presidential nomination. The police and the
demonstrators fought in the streets -- they'd done that many times
before, but the Chicago cops didn't have the smarts to leave the
reporters alone. They beat up the reporters, and the reporters
retaliated by finally showing what really went on at these
demonstrations, so the whole country watched their kids being really
savagely beaten down by the Chicago police. They called it a 'police
riot.'

"The Yippies loved to say, 'Never trust anyone over 30.' They meant
that people who were born before a certain time, when America had been
fighting enemies like the Nazis, could never understand what it meant
to love your country enough to refuse to fight the Vietnamese. They
thought that by the time you hit 30, your attitudes would be frozen and
you couldn't ever understand why the kids of the day were taken to the
streets, dropping out, freaking out.

"San Francisco was ground zero for this. Revolutionary armies were
founded here. Some of them blew up buildings or robbed banks for their
cause. A lot of those kids grew up to be more or less normal, while
others ended up in jail. Some of the university dropouts did amazing
things -- for example, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, who founded Apple
Computers and invented the PC."

I was really getting into this. I knew a little of it, but I'd never
heard it told like this. Or maybe it had never mattered as much as it
did now. Suddenly, those lame, solemn, grown-up street demonstrations
didn't seem so lame after all. Maybe there was room for that kind of
action in the Xnet movement.

I put my hand up. "Did they win? Did the Yippies win?"

She gave me a long look, like she was thinking it over. No one said a
word. We all wanted to hear the answer.

"They didn't lose," she said. "They kind of imploded a little. Some of
them went to jail for drugs or other things. Some of them changed their
tunes and became yuppies and went on the lecture circuit telling
everyone how stupid they'd been, talking about how good greed was and
how dumb they'd been.

"But they did change the world. The war in Vietnam ended, and the kind
of conformity and unquestioning obedience that people had called
patriotism went out of style in a big way. Black rights, women's rights
and gay rights came a long way. Chicano rights, rights for disabled
people, the whole tradition of civil liberties was created or
strengthened by these people. Today's protest movement is the direct
descendant of those struggles."

"I can't believe you're talking about them like this," Charles said. He
was leaning so far in his seat he was half standing, and his sharp,
skinny face had gone red. He had wet, large eyes and big lips, and when
he got excited he looked a little like a fish.

Ms Galvez stiffened a little, then said, "Go on, Charles."

"You've just described terrorists. Actual terrorists. They blew up
buildings, you said. They tried to destroy the stock exchange. They
beat up cops, and stopped cops from arresting people who were breaking
the law. They attacked us!"

Ms Galvez nodded slowly. I could tell she was trying to figure out how
to handle Charles, who really seemed like he was ready to pop. "Charles
raises a good point. The Yippies weren't foreign agents, they were
American citizens. When you say 'They attacked us,' you need to figure
out who 'they' and 'us' are. When it's your fellow countrymen --"

"Crap!" he shouted. He was on his feet now. "We were at war then. These
guys were giving aid and comfort to the enemy. It's easy to tell who's
us and who's them: if you support America, you're us. If you support
the people who are shooting at Americans, you're *them*."

"Does anyone else want to comment on this?"

Several hands shot up. Ms Galvez called on them. Some people pointed
out that the reason that the Vietnamese were shooting at Americans is
that the Americans had flown to Vietnam and started running around the
jungle with guns. Others thought that Charles had a point, that people
shouldn't be allowed to do illegal things.

Everyone had a good debate except Charles, who just shouted at people,
interrupting them when they tried to get their points out. Ms Galvez
tried to get him to wait for his turn a couple times, but he wasn't
having any of it.

I was looking something up on my SchoolBook, something I knew I'd read.

I found it. I stood up. Ms Galvez looked expectantly at me. The other
people followed her gaze and went quiet. Even Charles looked at me
after a while, his big wet eyes burning with hatred for me.

"I wanted to read something," I said. "It's short. 'Governments are
instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of
the governed, that whenever any form of government becomes destructive
of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it,
and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such
principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall
seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.'"

&&&

Chapter 12

[[This chapter is dedicated to Forbidden Planet, the British chain of
science fiction and fantasy books, comics, toys and videos. Forbidden
Planet has stores up and down the UK, and also sports outposts in
Manhattan and Dublin, Ireland. It's dangerous to set foot in a
Forbidden Planet -- rarely do I escape with my wallet intact. Forbidden
Planet really leads the pack in bringing the gigantic audience for TV
and movie science fiction into contact with science fiction books --
something that's absolutely critical to the future of the field.]]

[[Forbidden Planet, UK, Dublin and New York City:
http://www.forbiddenplanet.co.uk]]

Ms Galvez's smile was wide.

"Does anyone know what that comes from?"

A bunch of people chorused, "The Declaration of Independence."

I nodded.

"Why did you read that to us, Marcus?"

"Because it seems to me that the founders of this country said that
governments should only last for so long as we believe that they're
working for us, and if we stop believing in them, we should overthrow
them. That's what it says, right?"

Charles shook his head. "That was hundreds of years ago!" he said.
"Things are different now!"

"What's different?"

"Well, for one thing, we don't have a king anymore. They were talking
about a government that existed because some old jerk's
great-great-great-grandfather believed that God put him in charge and
killed everyone who disagreed with him. We have a democratically
elected government --"

"I didn't vote for them," I said.

"So that gives you the right to blow up a building?"

"What? Who said anything about blowing up a building? The Yippies and
hippies and all those people believed that the government no longer
listened to them -- look at the way people who tried to sign up voters
in the South were treated! They were beaten up, arrested --"

"Some of them were killed," Ms Galvez said. She held up her hands and
waited for Charles and me to sit down. "We're almost out of time for
today, but I want to commend you all on one of the most interesting
classes I've ever taught. This has been an excellent discussion and
I've learned much from you all. I hope you've learned from each other,
too. Thank you all for your contributions.

"I have an extra-credit assignment for those of you who want a little
challenge. I'd like you to write up a paper comparing the political
response to the anti-war and civil rights movements in the Bay Area to
the present day civil rights responses to the War on Terror. Three
pages minimum, but take as long as you'd like. I'm interested to see
what you come up with."

The bell rang a moment later and everyone filed out of the class. I
hung back and waited for Ms Galvez to notice me.

"Yes, Marcus?"

"That was amazing," I said. "I never knew all that stuff about the
sixties."

"The seventies, too. This place has always been an exciting place to
live in politically charged times. I really liked your reference to the
Declaration -- that was very clever."

"Thanks," I said. "It just came to me. I never really appreciated what
those words all meant before today."

"Well, those are the words every teacher loves to hear, Marcus," she
said, and shook my hand. "I can't wait to read your paper."



I bought the Emma Goldman poster on the way home and stuck it up over
my desk, tacked over a vintage black-light poster. I also bought a
NEVER TRUST t-shirt that had a photoshop of Grover and Elmo kicking the
grownups Gordon and Susan off Sesame Street. It made me laugh. I later
found out that there had already been about six photoshop contests for
the slogan online in places like Fark and Worth1000 and B3ta and there
were hundreds of ready-made pics floating around to go on whatever
merch someone churned out.

Mom raised an eyebrow at the shirt, and Dad shook his head and lectured
me about not looking for trouble. I felt a little vindicated by his
reaction.

Ange found me online again and we IM-flirted until late at night again.
The white van with the antennas came back and I switched off my Xbox
until it had passed. We'd all gotten used to doing that.

Ange was really excited by this party. It looked like it was going to
be monster. There were so many bands signed up they were talking about
setting up a B-stage for the secondary acts.

> How'd they get a permit to blast sound all night in that park?
> There's houses all around there

> Per-mit? What is "per-mit"? Tell me more of your hu-man per-mit.

> Woah, it's illegal?

> Um, hello? *You're* worried about breaking the law?

> Fair point

> LOL

I felt a little premonition of nervousness though. I mean, I was taking
this perfectly awesome girl out on a date that weekend -- well, she was
taking me, technically -- to an illegal rave being held in the middle
of a busy neighborhood.

It was bound to be interesting at least.



Interesting.

People started to drift into Dolores Park through the long Saturday
afternoon, showing up among the ultimate frisbee players and the
dog-walkers. Some of them played frisbee or walked dogs. It wasn't
really clear how the concert was going to work, but there were a lot of
cops and undercovers hanging around. You could tell the undercovers
because, like Zit and Booger, they had Castro haircuts and Nebraska
physiques: tubby guys with short hair and untidy mustaches. They
drifted around, looking awkward and uncomfortable in their giant shorts
and loose-fitting shirts that no-doubt hung down to cover the
chandelier of gear hung around their midriffs.

Dolores Park is pretty and sunny, with palm trees, tennis courts, and
lots of hills and regular trees to run around on, or hang out on.
Homeless people sleep there at night, but that's true everywhere in San
Francisco.

I met Ange down the street, at the anarchist bookstore. That had been
my suggestion. In hindsight, it was a totally transparent move to seem
cool and edgy to this girl, but at the time I would have sworn that I
picked it because it was a convenient place to meet up. She was reading
a book called *Up Against the Wall Motherf_____r* when I got there.

"Nice," I said. "You kiss your mother with that mouth?"

"Your mama don't complain," she said. "Actually, it's a history of a
group of people like the Yippies, but from New York. They all used that
word as their last names, like 'Ben M-F.' The idea was to have a group
out there, making news, but with a totally unprintable name. Just to
screw around with the news-media. Pretty funny, really." She put the
book back on the shelf and now I wondered if I should hug her. People
in California hug to say hello and goodbye all the time. Except when
they don't. And sometimes they kiss on the cheek. It's all very
confusing.

She settled it for me by grabbing me in a hug and tugging my head down
to her, kissing me hard on the cheek, then blowing a fart on my neck. I
laughed and pushed her away.

"You want a burrito?" I asked.

"Is that a question or a statement of the obvious?"

"Neither. It's an order."

I bought some funny stickers that said THIS PHONE IS TAPPED which were
the right size to put on the receivers on the pay phones that still
lined the streets of the Mission, it being the kind of neighborhood
where you got people who couldn't necessarily afford a cellphone.

We walked out into the night air. I told Ange about the scene at the
park when I left.

"I bet they have a hundred of those trucks parked around the block,"
she said. "The better to bust you with."

"Um." I looked around. "I sort of hoped that you would say something
like, 'Aw, there's no chance they'll do anything about it.'"

"I don't think that's really the idea. The idea is to put a lot of
civilians in a position where the cops have to decide, are we going to
treat these ordinary people like terrorists? It's a little like the
jamming, but with music instead of gadgets. You jam, right?"

Sometimes I forget that all my friends don't know that Marcus and M1k3y
are the same person. "Yeah, a little," I said.

"This is like jamming with a bunch of awesome bands."

"I see."

Mission burritos are an institution. They are cheap, giant and
delicious. Imagine a tube the size of a bazooka shell, filled with
spicy grilled meat, guacamole, salsa, tomatoes, refried beans, rice,
onions and cilantro. It has the same relationship to Taco Bell that a
Lamborghini has to a Hot Wheels car.

There are about two hundred Mission burrito joints. They're all
heroically ugly, with uncomfortable seats, minimal decor -- faded
Mexican tourist office posters and electrified framed Jesus and Mary
holograms -- and loud mariachi music. The thing that distinguishes
them, mostly, is what kind of exotic meat they fill their wares with.
The really authentic places have brains and tongue, which I never
order, but it's nice to know it's there.

The place we went to had both brains and tongue, which we didn't order.
I got carne asada and she got shredded chicken and we each got a big
cup of horchata.

As soon as we sat down, she unrolled her burrito and took a little
bottle out of her purse. It was a little stainless-steel aerosol
canister that looked for all the world like a pepper-spray self-defense
unit. She aimed it at her burrito's exposed guts and misted them with a
fine red oily spray. I caught a whiff of it and my throat closed and my
eyes watered.

"What the hell are you doing to that poor, defenseless burrito?"

She gave me a wicked smile. "I'm a spicy food addict," she said. "This
is capsaicin oil in a mister."

"Capsaicin --"

"Yeah, the stuff in pepper spray. This is like pepper spray but
slightly more dilute. And way more delicious. Think of it as Spicy
Cajun Visine if it helps."

My eyes burned just thinking of it.

"You're kidding," I said. "You are so not going to eat that."

Her eyebrows shot up. "That sounds like a challenge, sonny. You just
watch me."

She rolled the burrito up as carefully as a stoner rolling up a joint,
tucking the ends in, then re-wrapping it in tinfoil. She peeled off one
end and brought it up to her mouth, poised with it just before her
lips.

Right up to the time she bit into it, I couldn't believe that she was
going to do it. I mean, that was basically an anti-personnel weapon
she'd just slathered on her dinner.

She bit into it. Chewed. Swallowed. Gave every impression of having a
delicious dinner.

"Want a bite?" she said, innocently.

"Yeah," I said. I like spicy food. I always order the curries with four
chilies next to them on the menu at the Pakistani places.

I peeled back more foil and took a big bite.

Big mistake.

You know that feeling you get when you take a big bite of horseradish
or wasabi or whatever, and it feels like your sinuses are closing at
the same time as your windpipe, filling your head with trapped,
nuclear-hot air that tries to batter its way out through your watering
eyes and nostrils? That feeling like steam is about to pour out of your
ears like a cartoon character?

This was a lot worse.

This was like putting your hand on a hot stove, only it's not your
hand, it's the entire inside of your head, and your esophagus all the
way down to your stomach. My entire body sprang out in a sweat and I
choked and choked.

Wordlessly, she passed me my horchata and I managed to get the straw
into my mouth and suck hard on it, gulping down half of it in one go.

"So there's a scale, the Scoville scale, that we chili-fanciers use to
talk about how spicy a pepper is. Pure capsaicin is about 15 million
Scovilles. Tabasco is about 50,000. Pepper spray is a healthy three
million. This stuff is a puny 200,000, about as hot as a mild Scotch
Bonnet Pepper. I worked up to it in about a year. Some of the real
hardcore can get up to a million or so, twenty times hotter than
Tabasco. That's pretty freaking hot. At Scoville temperatures like
that, your brain gets totally awash in endorphins. It's a better
body-stone than hash. And it's good for you."

I was getting my sinuses back now, able to breathe without gasping.

"Of course, you get a ferocious ring of fire when you go to the john,"
she said, winking at me.

Yowch.

"You are insane," I said.

"Fine talk from a man whose hobby is building and smashing laptops,"
she said.

"Touche," I said and touched my forehead.

"Want some?" She held out her mister.

"Pass," I said, quickly enough that we both laughed.

When we left the restaurant and headed for Dolores park, she put her
arm around my waist and I found that she was just the right height for
me to put my arm around her shoulders. That was new. I'd never been a
tall guy, and the girls I'd dated had all been my height -- teenaged
girls grow faster than guys, which is a cruel trick of nature. It was
nice. It felt nice.

We turned the corner on 20th Street and walked up toward Dolores.
Before we'd taken a single step, we could feel the buzz. It was like
the hum of a million bees. There were lots of people streaming toward
the park, and when I looked toward it, I saw that it was about a
hundred times more crowded than it had been when I went to meet Ange.

That sight made my blood run hot. It was a beautiful cool night and we
were about to party, really party, party like there was no tomorrow.
"Eat drink and be merry, for tomorrow we die."

Without saying anything we both broke into a trot. There were lots of
cops, with tense faces, but what the hell were they going to do? There
were a *lot* of people in the park. I'm not so good at counting crowds.
The papers later quoted organizers as saying there were 20,000 people;
the cops said 5,000. Maybe that means there were 12,500.

Whatever. It was more people than I'd ever stood among, as part of an
unscheduled, unsanctioned, *illegal* event.

We were among them in an instant. I can't swear to it, but I don't
think there was anyone over 25 in that press of bodies. Everyone was
smiling. Some young kids were there, 10 or 12, and that made me feel
better. No one would do anything too stupid with kids that little in
the crowd. No one wanted to see little kids get hurt. This was just
going to be a glorious spring night of celebration.

I figured the thing to do was push in towards the tennis courts. We
threaded our way through the crowd, and to stay together we took each
other's hands. Only staying together didn't require us to intertwine
fingers. That was strictly for pleasure. It was very pleasurable.

The bands were all inside the tennis courts, with their guitars and
mixers and keyboards and even a drum kit. Later, on Xnet, I found a
Flickr stream of them smuggling all this stuff in, piece by piece, in
gym bags and under their coats. Along with it all were huge speakers,
the kind you see in automotive supply places, and among them, a stack
of...car batteries. I laughed. Genius! That was how they were going to
power their stacks. From where I stood, I could see that they were
cells from a hybrid car, a Prius. Someone had gutted an eco-mobile to
power the night's entertainment. The batteries continued outside the
courts, stacked up against the fence, tethered to the main stack by
wires threaded through the chain-link. I counted -- 200 batteries!
Christ! Those things weighed a ton, too.

There's no way they organized this without email and wikis and mailing
lists. And there's no way people this smart would have done that on the
public Internet. This had all taken place on the Xnet, I'd bet my boots
on it.

We just kind of bounced around in the crowd for a while as the bands
tuned up and conferred with one another. I saw Trudy Doo from a
distance, in the tennis courts. She looked like she was in a cage, like
a pro wrestler. She was wearing a torn wife-beater and her hair was in
long, fluorescent pink dreads down to her waist. She was wearing army
camouflage pants and giant gothy boots with steel over-toes. As I
watched, she picked up a heavy motorcycle jacket, worn as a catcher's
mitt, and put it on like armor. It probably was armor, I realized.

I tried to wave to her, to impress Ange I guess, but she didn't see me
and I kind of looked like a spazz so I stopped. The energy in the crowd
was amazing. You hear people talk about "vibes" and "energy" for big
groups of people, but until you've experienced it, you probably think
it's just a figure of speech.

It's not. It's the smiles, infectious and big as watermelons, on every
face. Everyone bopping a little to an unheard rhythm, shoulders
rocking. Rolling walks. Jokes and laughs. The tone of every voice tight
and excited, like a firework about to go off. And you can't help but be
a part of it. Because you are.

By the time the bands kicked off, I was utterly stoned on crowd-vibe.
The opening act was some kind of Serbian turbo-folk, which I couldn't
figure out how to dance to. I know how to dance to exactly two kinds of
music: trance (shuffle around and let the music move you) and punk
(bash around and mosh until you get hurt or exhausted or both). The
next act was Oakland hip-hoppers, backed by a thrash metal band, which
is better than it sounds. Then some bubble-gum pop. Then Speedwhores
took the stage, and Trudy Doo stepped up to the mic.

"My name is Trudy Doo and you're an idiot if you trust me. I'm thirty
two and it's too late for me. I'm lost. I'm stuck in the old way of
thinking. I still take my freedom for granted and let other people take
it away from me. You're the first generation to grow up in Gulag
America, and you know what your freedom is worth to the last goddamned
cent!"

The crowd roared. She was playing fast little skittery nervous chords
on her guitar and her bass player, a huge fat girl with a dykey haircut
and even bigger boots and a smile you could open beer bottles with was
laying it down fast and hard already. I wanted to bounce. I bounced.
Ange bounced with me. We were sweating freely in the evening, which
reeked of perspiration and pot smoke. Warm bodies crushed in on all
sides of us. They bounced too.

"Don't trust anyone over 25!" she shouted.

We roared. We were one big animal throat, roaring.

"Don't trust anyone over 25!"

"*Don't trust anyone over 25!*"

"Don't trust anyone over 25!"

"*Don't trust anyone over 25!*"

"Don't trust anyone over 25!"

"*Don't trust anyone over 25!*"

She banged some hard chords on her guitar and the other guitarist, a
little pixie of a girl whose face bristled with piercings, jammed in,
going wheedle-dee-wheedle-dee-dee up high, past the twelfth fret.

"It's our goddamned city! It's our goddamned country. No terrorist can
take it from us for so long as we're free. Once we're not free, the
terrorists win! Take it back! Take it back! You're young enough and
stupid enough not to know that you can't possibly win, so you're the
only ones who can lead us to victory! *Take it back!"

"TAKE IT BACK!" we roared. She jammed down hard on her guitar. We
roared the note back and then it got really really LOUD.



I danced until I was so tired I couldn't dance another step. Ange
danced alongside of me. Technically, we were rubbing our sweaty bodies
against each other for several hours, but believe it or not, I totally
wasn't being a horn-dog about it. We were dancing, lost in the godbeat
and the thrash and the screaming -- TAKE IT BACK! TAKE IT BACK!

When I couldn't dance anymore, I grabbed her hand and she squeezed mine
like I was keeping her from falling off a building. She dragged me
toward the edge of the crowd, where it got thinner and cooler. Out
there, on the edge of Dolores Park, we were in the cool air and the
sweat on our bodies went instantly icy. We shivered and she threw her
arms around my waist. "Warm me," she commanded. I didn't need a hint. I
hugged her back. Her heart was an echo of the fast beats from the stage
-- breakbeats now, fast and furious and wordless.

She smelled of sweat, a sharp tang that smelled great. I knew I smelled
of sweat too. My nose was pointed into the top of her head, and her
face was right at my collarbone. She moved her hands to my neck and
tugged.

"Get down here, I didn't bring a stepladder," is what she said and I
tried to smile, but it's hard to smile when you're kissing.

Like I said, I'd kissed three girls in my life. Two of them had never
kissed anyone before. One had been dating since she was 12. She had
issues.

None of them kissed like Ange. She made her whole mouth soft, like the
inside of a ripe piece of fruit, and she didn't jam her tongue in my
mouth, but slid it in there, and sucked my lips into her mouth at the
same time, so it was like my mouth and hers were merging. I heard
myself moan and I grabbed her and squeezed her harder.

Slowly, gently, we lowered ourselves to the grass. We lay on our sides
and clutched each other, kissing and kissing. The world disappeared so
there was only the kiss.

My hands found her butt, her waist. The edge of her t-shirt. Her warm
tummy, her soft navel. They inched higher. She moaned too.

"Not here," she said. "Let's move over there." She pointed across the
street at the big white church that gives Mission Dolores Park and the
Mission its name. Holding hands, moving quickly, we crossed to the
church. It had big pillars in front of it. She put my back up against
one of them and pulled my face down to hers again. My hands went
quickly and boldly back to her shirt. I slipped them up her front.

"It undoes in the back," she whispered into my mouth. I had a boner
that could cut glass. I moved my hands around to her back, which was
strong and broad, and found the hook with my fingers, which were
trembling. I fumbled for a while, thinking of all those jokes about how
bad guys are at undoing bras. I was bad at it. Then the hook sprang
free. She gasped into my mouth. I slipped my hands around, feeling the
wetness of her armpits -- which was sexy and not at all gross for some
reason -- and then brushed the sides of her breasts.

That's when the sirens started.

They were louder than anything I'd ever heard. A sound like a physical
sensation, like something blowing you off your feet. A sound as loud as
your ears could process, and then louder.

"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," a voice said, like God rattling in my skull.

"THIS IS AN ILLEGAL GATHERING. DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY."

The band had stopped playing. The noise of the crowd across the street
changed. It got scared. Angry.

I heard a click as the PA system of car-speakers and car-batteries in
the tennis courts powered up.

"TAKE IT BACK!"

It was a defiant yell, like a sound shouted into the surf or screamed
off a cliff.

"TAKE IT BACK!"

The crowd *growled*, a sound that made the hairs on the back of my neck
stand up.

"*TAKE IT BACK*!" they chanted. "TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT BACK TAKE IT
BACK!"

The police moved in in lines, carrying plastic shields, wearing Darth
Vader helmets that covered their faces. Each one had a black truncheon
and infra-red goggles. They looked like soldiers out of some futuristic
war movie. They took a step forward in unison and every one of them
banged his truncheon on his shield, a cracking noise like the earth
splitting. Another step, another crack. They were all around the park
and closing in now.

"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," the voice of God said again. There were
helicopters overhead now. No floodlights, though. The infrared goggles,
right. Of course. They'd have infrared scopes in the sky, too. I pulled
Ange back against the doorway of the church, tucking us back from the
cops and the choppers.

"TAKE IT BACK!" the PA roared. It was Trudy Doo's rebel yell and I
heard her guitar thrash out some chords, then her drummer playing, then
that big deep bass.

"TAKE IT BACK!" the crowd answered, and they boiled out of the park at
the police lines.

I've never been in a war, but now I think I know what it must be like.
What it must be like when scared kids charge across a field at an
opposing force, knowing what's coming, running anyway, screaming,
hollering.

"DISPERSE IMMEDIATELY," the voice of God said. It was coming from
trucks parked all around the park, trucks that had swung into place in
the last few seconds.

That's when the mist fell. It came out of the choppers, and we just
caught the edge of it. It made the top of my head feel like it was
going to come off. It made my sinuses feel like they were being
punctured with ice-picks. It made my eyes swell and water, and my
throat close.

Pepper spray. Not 200 thousand Scovilles. A million and a half. They'd
gassed the crowd.

I didn't see what happened next, but I heard it, over the sound of both
me and Ange choking and holding each other. First the choking, retching
sounds. The guitar and drums and bass crashed to a halt. Then coughing.

Then screaming.

The screaming went on for a long time. When I could see again, the cops
had their scopes up on their foreheads and the choppers were flooding
Dolores Park with so much light it looked like daylight. Everyone was
looking at the Park, which was good news, because when the lights went
up like that, we were totally visible.

"What do we do?" Ange said. Her voice was tight, scared. I didn't trust
myself to speak for a moment. I swallowed a few times.

"We walk away," I said. "That's all we can do. Walk away. Like we were
just passing by. Down to Dolores and turn left and up towards 16th
Street. Like we're just passing by. Like this is none of our business."

"That'll never work," she said.

"It's all I've got."

"You don't think we should try to run for it?"

"No," I said. "If we run, they'll chase us. Maybe if we walk, they'll
figure we haven't done anything and let us alone. They have a lot of
arrests to make. They'll be busy for a long time."

The park was rolling with bodies, people and adults clawing at their
faces and gasping. The cops dragged them by the armpits, then lashed
their wrists with plastic cuffs and tossed them into the trucks like
rag-dolls.

"OK?" I said.

"OK," she said.

And that's just what we did. Walked, holding hands, quickly and
business-like, like two people wanting to avoid whatever trouble
someone else was making. The kind of walk you adopt when you want to
pretend you can't see a panhandler, or don't want to get involved in a
street-fight.

It worked.

We reached the corner and turned and kept going. Neither of us dared to
speak for two blocks. Then I let out a gasp of air I hadn't know I'd
been holding in.

We came to 16th Street and turned down toward Mission Street. Normally
that's a pretty scary neighborhood at 2AM on a Saturday night. That
night it was a relief -- same old druggies and hookers and dealers and
drunks. No cops with truncheons, no gas.

"Um," I said as we breathed in the night air. "Coffee?"

"Home," she said. "I think home for now. Coffee later."

"Yeah," I agreed. She lived up in Hayes Valley. I spotted a taxi
rolling by and I hailed it. That was a small miracle -- there are
hardly any cabs when you need them in San Francisco.

"Have you got cabfare home?"

"Yeah," she said. The cab-driver looked at us through his window. I
opened the back door so he wouldn't take off.

"Good night," I said.

She put her hands behind my head and pulled my face toward her. She
kissed me hard on the mouth, nothing sexual in it, but somehow more
intimate for that.

"Good night," she whispered in my ear, and slipped into the taxi.

Head swimming, eyes running, a burning shame for having left all those
Xnetters to the tender mercies of the DHS and the SFPD, I set off for
home.



Monday morning, Fred Benson was standing behind Ms Galvez's desk.

"Ms Galvez will no longer be teaching this class," he said, once we'd
taken our seats. He had a self-satisfied note that I recognized
immediately. On a hunch, I checked out Charles. He was smiling like it
was his birthday and he'd been given the best present in the world.

I put my hand up.

"Why not?"

"It's Board policy not to discuss employee matters with anyone except
the employee and the disciplinary committee," he said, without even
bothering to hide how much he enjoyed saying it.

"We'll be beginning a new unit today, on national security. Your
SchoolBooks have the new texts. Please open them and turn to the first
screen."

The opening screen was emblazoned with a DHS logo and the title: WHAT
EVERY AMERICAN SHOULD KNOW ABOUT HOMELAND SECURITY.

I wanted to throw my SchoolBook on the floor.



I'd made arrangements to meet Ange at a cafe in her neighborhood after
school. I jumped on the BART and found myself sitting behind two guys
in suits. They were looking at the San Francisco Chronicle, which
featured a full-page post-mortem on the "youth riot" in Mission Dolores
Park. They were tutting and clucking over it. Then one said to the
other, "It's like they're brainwashed or something. Christ, were we
ever that stupid?"

I got up and moved to another seat.

&&&

Chapter 13

[[This chapter is dedicated to Books-A-Million, a chain of gigantic
bookstores spread across the USA. I first encountered Books-A-Million
while staying at a hotel in Terre Haute, Indiana (I was giving a speech
at the Rose Hulman Institute of Technology later that day). The store
was next to my hotel and I really needed some reading material -- I'd
been on the road for a solid month and I'd read everything in my
suitcase, and I had another five cities to go before I headed home. As
I stared intently at the shelves, a clerk asked me if I needed any
help. Now, I've worked at bookstores before, and a knowledgeable clerk
is worth her weight in gold, so I said sure, and started to describe my
tastes, naming authors I'd enjoyed. The clerk smiled and said, "I've
got just the book for you," and proceeded to take down a copy of my
first novel, Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom. I busted out laughing,
introduced myself, and had an absolutely lovely chat about science
fiction that almost made me late to give my speech!]]

[[Books-A-Million
http://www.booksamillion.com/ncom/books?&isbn=0765319853]]

"They're total whores," Ange said, spitting the word out. "In fact,
that's an insult to hardworking whores everywhere. They're, they're
*profiteers.*"

We were looking at a stack of newspapers we'd picked up and brought to
the cafe. They all contained "reporting" on the party in Dolores Park
and to a one, they made it sound like a drunken, druggy orgy of kids
who'd attacked the cops. *USA Today* described the cost of the "riot"
and included the cost of washing away the pepper-spray residue from the
gas-bombing, the rash of asthma attacks that clogged the city's
emergency rooms, and the cost of processing the eight hundred arrested
"rioters."

No one was telling our side.

"Well, the Xnet got it right, anyway," I said. I'd saved a bunch of the
blogs and videos and photostreams to my phone and I showed them to her.
They were first-hand accounts from people who'd been gassed, and beaten
up. The video showed us all dancing, having fun, showed the peaceful
political speeches and the chant of "Take It Back" and Trudy Doo
talking about us being the only generation that could believe in
fighting for our freedoms.

"We need to make people know about this," she said.

"Yeah," I said, glumly. "That's a nice theory."

"Well, why do you think the press doesn't ever publish our side?"

"You said it, they're whores."

"Yeah, but whores do it for the money. They could sell more papers and
commercials if they had a controversy. All they have now is a crime --
controversy is much bigger."

"OK, point taken. So why don't they do it? Well, reporters can barely
search regular blogs, let alone keep track of the Xnet. It's not as if
that's a real adult-friendly place to be."

"Yeah," she said. "Well, we can fix that, right?"

"Huh?"

"Write it all up. Put it in one place, with all the links. A single
place where you can go that's intended for the press to find it and get
the whole picture. Link it to the HOWTOs for Xnet. Internet users can
get to the Xnet, provided they don't care about the DHS finding out
what they've been surfing."

"You think it'll work?"

"Well, even if it doesn't, it's something positive to do."

"Why would they listen to us, anyway?"

"Who wouldn't listen to M1k3y?"

I put down my coffee. I picked up my phone and slipped it into my
pocket. I stood up, turned on my heel, and walked out of the cafe. I
picked a direction at random and kept going. My face felt tight, the
blood gone into my stomach, which churned.

*They know who you are,* I thought. *They know who M1k3y is.* That was
it. If Ange had figured it out, the DHS had too. I was doomed. I had
known that since they let me go from the DHS truck, that someday they'd
come and arrest me and put me away forever, send me to wherever Darryl
had gone.

It was all over.

She nearly tackled me as I reached Market Street. She was out of breath
and looked furious.

"What the *hell* is your problem, mister?"

I shook her off and kept walking. It was all over.

She grabbed me again. "Stop it, Marcus, you're scaring me. Come on,
talk to me."

I stopped and looked at her. She blurred before my eyes. I couldn't
focus on anything. I had a mad desire to jump into the path of a Muni
trolley as it tore past us, down the middle of the road. Better to die
than to go back.

"Marcus!" She did something I'd only seen people do in the movies. She
slapped me, a hard crack across the face. "Talk to me, dammit!"

I looked at her and put my hand to my face, which was stinging hard.

"No one is supposed to know who I am," I said. "I can't put it any more
simply. If you know, it's all over. Once other people know, it's all
over."

"Oh god, I'm sorry. Look, I only know because, well, because I
blackmailed Jolu. After the party I stalked you a little, trying to
figure out if you were the nice guy you seemed to be or a secret
axe-murderer. I've known Jolu for a long time and when I asked him
about you, he gushed like you were the Second Coming or something, but
I could hear that there was something he wasn't telling me. I've known
Jolu for a long time. He dated my older sister at computer camp when he
was a kid. I have some really good dirt on him. I told him I'd go
public with it if he didn't tell me."

"So he told you."

"No," she said. "He told me to go to hell. Then I told him something
about me. Something I'd never told anyone else."

"What?"

She looked at me. Looked around. Looked back at me. "OK. I won't swear
you to secrecy because what's the point? Either I can trust you or I
can't.

"Last year, I --" she broke off. "Last year, I stole the standardized
tests and published them on the net. It was just a lark. I happened to
be walking past the principal's office and I saw them in his safe, and
the door was hanging open. I ducked into his office -- there were six
sets of copies and I just put one into my bag and took off again. When
I got home, I scanned them all and put them up on a Pirate Party server
in Denmark."

"That was *you*?" I said.

She blushed. "Um. Yeah."

"Holy crap!" I said. It had been huge news. The Board of Education said
that its No Child Left Behind tests had cost tens of millions of
dollars to produce and that they'd have to spend it all over again now
that they'd had the leak. They called it "edu-terrorism." The news had
speculated endlessly about the political motivations of the leaker,
wondering if it was a teacher's protest, or a student, or a thief, or a
disgruntled government contractor.

"That was YOU?"

"It was me," she said.

"And you told Jolu this --"

"Because I wanted him to be sure that I would keep the secret. If he
knew *my* secret, then he'd have something he could use to put me in
jail if I opened my trap. Give a little, get a little. Quid pro quo,
like in Silence of the Lambs."

"And he told you."

"No," she said. "He didn't."

"But --"

"Then I told him how into you I was. How I was planning to totally make
an idiot of myself and throw myself at you. *Then* he told me."

I couldn't think of anything to say then. I looked down at my toes. She
grabbed my hands and squeezed them.

"I'm sorry I squeezed it out of him. It was your decision to tell me,
if you were going to tell me at all. I had no business --"

"No," I said. Now that I knew how she'd found out, I was starting to
calm down. "No, it's good you know. *You*."

"Me," she said. "Li'l ol' me."

"OK, I can live with this. But there's one other thing."

"What?"

"There's no way to say this without sounding like a jerk, so I'll just
say it. People who date each other -- or whatever it is we're doing now
-- they split up. When they split up, they get angry at each other.
Sometimes even hate each other. It's really cold to think about that
happening between us, but you know, we've got to think about it."

"I solemnly promise that there is nothing you could ever do to me that
would cause me to betray your secret. Nothing. Screw a dozen
cheerleaders in my bed while my mother watches. Make me listen to
Britney Spears. Rip off my laptop, smash it with hammers and soak it in
sea-water. I promise. Nothing. Ever."

I whooshed out some air.

"Um," I said.

"Now would be a good time to kiss me," she said, and turned her face
up.



M1k3y's next big project on the Xnet was putting together the ultimate
roundup of reports of the DON'T TRUST party at Dolores Park. I put
together the biggest, most bad-ass site I could, with sections showing
the action by location, by time, by category -- police violence,
dancing, aftermath, singing. I uploaded the whole concert.

It was pretty much all I worked on for the rest of the night. And the
next night. And the next.

My mailbox overflowed with suggestions from people. They sent me dumps
off their phones and their pocket-cameras. Then I got an email from a
name I recognized -- Dr Eeevil (three "e"s), one of the prime
maintainers of ParanoidLinux.

> M1k3y

> I have been watching your Xnet experiment with great interest. Here
> in Germany, we have much experience with what happens with a
> government that gets out of control. 

> One thing you should know is that every camera has a unique "noise
> signature" that can be used to later connect a picture with a camera.
> That means that the photos you're republishing on your site could
> potentially be used to identify the photographers, should they later
> be picked up for something else.

> Luckily, it's not hard to strip out the signatures, if you care to.
> There's a utility on the ParanoidLinux distro you're using that does
> this -- it's called photonomous, and you'll find it in /usr/bin. Just
> read the man pages for documentation. It's simple though.

> Good luck with what you're doing. Don't get caught. Stay free. Stay
> paranoid.

> Dr Eeevil

I de-fingerprintized all the photos I'd posted and put them back up,
along with a note explaining what Dr Eeevil had told me, warning
everyone else to do the same. We all had the same basic ParanoidXbox
install, so we could all anonymize our pictures. There wasn't anything
I could do about the photos that had already been downloaded and
cached, but from now on we'd be smarter.

That was all the thought I gave the matter that night, until I got down
to breakfast the next morning and Mom had the radio on, playing the NPR
morning news.

"Arabic news agency Al-Jazeera is running pictures, video and
first-hand accounts of last weekend's youth riot in Mission Dolores
park," the announcer said as I was drinking a glass of orange juice. I
managed not to spray it across the room, but I *did* choke a little.

"Al-Jazeera reporters claim that these accounts were published on the
so-called 'Xnet,' a clandestine network used by students and Al-Quaeda
sympathizers in the Bay Area. This network's existence has long been
rumored, but today marks its first mainstream mention."

Mom shook her head. "Just what we need," she said. "As if the police
weren't bad enough. Kids running around, pretending to be guerrillas
and giving them the excuse to really crack down."

"The Xnet weblogs have carried hundreds of reports and multimedia files
from young people who attended the riot and allege that they were
gathered peacefully until the police attacked *them*. Here is one of
those accounts.

"'All we were doing was dancing. I brought my little brother. Bands
played and we talked about freedom, about how we were losing it to
these jerks who say they hate terrorists but who attack us though we're
not terrorists we're Americans. I think they hate freedom, not us.

"We danced and the bands played and it was all fun and good and then
the cops started shouting at us to disperse. We all shouted take it
back! Meaning take America back. The cops gassed us with pepper spray.
My little brother is twelve. He missed three days of school. My stupid
parents say it was my fault. How about the police? We pay them and
they're supposed to protect us but they gassed us for no good reason,
gassed us like they gas enemy soldiers.'

"Similar accounts, including audio and video, can be found on
Al-Jazeera's website and on the Xnet. You can find directions for
accessing this Xnet on NPR's homepage."

Dad came down.

"Do you use the Xnet?" he said. He looked intensely at my face. I felt
myself squirm.

"It's for video-games," I said. "That's what most people use it for.
It's just a wireless network. It's what everyone did with those free
Xboxes they gave away last year."

He glowered at me. "Games? Marcus, you don't realize it, but you're
providing cover for people who plan on attacking and destroying this
country. I don't want to see you using this Xnet. Not anymore. Do I
make myself clear?"

I wanted to argue. Hell, I wanted to shake him by the shoulders. But I
didn't. I looked away. I said, "Sure, Dad." I went to school.



At first I was relieved when I discovered that they weren't going to
leave Mr Benson in charge of my social studies class. But the woman
they found to replace him was my worst nightmare.

She was young, just about 28 or 29, and pretty, in a wholesome kind of
way. She was blonde and spoke with a soft southern accent when she
introduced herself to us as Mrs Andersen. That set off alarm bells
right away. I didn't know *any* women under the age of sixty that
called themselves "Mrs."

But I was prepared to overlook it. She was young, pretty, she sounded
nice. She would be OK.

She wasn't OK.

"Under what circumstances should the federal government be prepared to
suspend the Bill of Rights?" she said, turning to the blackboard and
writing down a row of numbers, one through ten.

"Never," I said, not waiting to be called on. This was easy.
"Constitutional rights are absolute."

"That's not a very sophisticated view." She looked at her seating-plan.
"Marcus. For example, say a policeman conducts an improper search -- he
goes beyond the stuff specified in his warrant. He discovers compelling
evidence that a bad guy killed your father. It's the only evidence that
exists. Should the bad guy go free?"

I knew the answer to this, but I couldn't really explain it. "Yes," I
said, finally. "But the police shouldn't conduct improper searches --"

"Wrong," she said. "The proper response to police misconduct is
disciplinary action against the police, not punishing all of society
for one cop's mistake." She wrote "Criminal guilt" under point one on
the board.

"Other ways in which the Bill of Rights can be superseded?"

Charles put his hand up. "Shouting fire in a crowded theater?"

"Very good --" she consulted the seating plan -- "Charles. There are
many instances in which the First Amendment is not absolute. Let's list
some more of those."

Charles put his hand up again. "Endangering a law enforcement officer."

"Yes, disclosing the identity of an undercover policeman or
intelligence officer. Very good." She wrote it down. "Others?"

"National security," Charles said, not waiting for her to call on him
again. "Libel. Obscenity. Corruption of minors. Child porn. Bomb-making
recipes." Mrs Andersen wrote these down fast, but stopped at child
porn. "Child porn is just a form of obscenity."

I was feeling sick. This was not what I'd learned or believed about my
country. I put my hand up.

"Yes, Marcus?"

"I don't get it. You're making it sound like the Bill of Rights is
optional. It's the Constitution. We're supposed to follow it
absolutely."

"That's a common oversimplification," she said, giving me a fake smile.
"But the fact of the matter is that the framers of the Constitution
intended it to be a living document that was revised over time. They
understood that the Republic wouldn't be able to last forever if the
government of the day couldn't govern according to the needs of the
day. They never intended the Constitution to be looked on like
religious doctrine. After all, they came here fleeing religious
doctrine."

I shook my head. "What? No. They were merchants and artisans who were
loyal to the King until he instituted policies that were against their
interests and enforced them brutally. The religious refugees were way
earlier."

"Some of the Framers were descended from religious refugees," she said.

"And the Bill of Rights isn't supposed to be something you pick and
choose from. What the Framers hated was tyranny. That's what the Bill
of Rights is supposed to prevent. They were a revolutionary army and
they wanted a set of principles that everyone could agree to. Life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The right of people to throw off
their oppressors."

"Yes, yes," she said, waving at me. "They believed in the right of
people to get rid of their Kings, but --" Charles was grinning and when
she said that, he smiled even wider.

"They set out the Bill of Rights because they thought that having
absolute rights was better than the risk that someone would take them
away. Like the First Amendment: it's supposed to protect us by
preventing the government from creating two kinds of speech, allowed
speech and criminal speech. They didn't want to face the risk that some
jerk would decide that the things that he found unpleasant were
illegal."

She turned and wrote, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" on
it.

"We're getting a little ahead of the lesson, but you seem like an
advanced group." The others laughed at this, nervously.

"The role of government is to secure for citizens the rights of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. In that order. It's like a
filter. If the government wants to do something that makes us a little
unhappy, or takes away some of our liberty, it's OK, providing they're
doing it to save our lives. That's why the cops can lock you up if they
think you're a danger to yourself or others. You lose your liberty and
happiness to protect life. If you've got life, you might get liberty
and happiness later."

Some of the others had their hands up. "Doesn't that mean that they can
do anything they want, if they say it's to stop someone from hurting us
in the future?"

"Yeah," another kid said. "This sounds like you're saying that national
security is more important than the Constitution."

I was so proud of my fellow students then. I said, "How can you protect
freedom by suspending the Bill of Rights?"

She shook her head at us like we were being very stupid. "The
'revolutionary' founding fathers *shot traitors* and spies. They didn't
believe in absolute freedom, not when it threatened the Republic. Now
you take these Xnet people --"

I tried hard not to stiffen.

"-- these so-called jammers who were on the news this morning. After
this city was attacked by people who've declared war on this country,
they set about sabotaging the security measures set up to catch the bad
guys and prevent them from doing it again. They did this by endangering
and inconveniencing their fellow citizens --"

"They did it to show that our rights were being taken away in the name
of protecting them!" I said. OK, I shouted. God, she had me so steamed.
"They did it because the government was treating *everyone* like a
suspected terrorist."

"So they wanted to prove that they shouldn't be treated like
terrorists," Charles shouted back, "so they acted like terrorists? So
they committed terrorism?"

I boiled.

"Oh for Christ's sake. Committed terrorism? They showed that universal
surveillance was more dangerous than terrorism. Look at what happened
in the park last weekend. Those people were dancing and listening to
music. How is *that* terrorism?"

The teacher crossed the room and stood before me, looming over me until
I shut up. "Marcus, you seem to think that nothing has changed in this
country. You need to understand that the bombing of the Bay Bridge
changed everything. Thousands of our friends and relatives lie dead at
the bottom of the Bay. This is a time for national unity in the face of
the violent insult our country has suffered --"

I stood up. I'd had enough of this "everything has changed" crapola.
"National unity? The whole point of America is that we're the country
where dissent is welcome. We're a country of dissidents and fighters
and university dropouts and free speech people."

I thought of Ms Galvez's last lesson and the thousands of Berkeley
students who'd surrounded the police-van when they tried to arrest a
guy for distributing civil rights literature. No one tried to stop
those trucks when they drove away with all the people who'd been
dancing in the park. I didn't try. I was running away.

Maybe everything *had* changed.

"I believe you know where Mr Benson's office is," she said to me. "You
are to present yourself to him immediately. I will *not* have my
classes disrupted by disrespectful behavior. For someone who claims to
love freedom of speech, you're certainly willing to shout down anyone
who disagrees with you."

I picked up my SchoolBook and my bag and stormed out. The door had a
gas-lift, so it was impossible to slam, or I would have slammed it.

I went fast to Mr Benson's office. Cameras filmed me as I went. My gait
was recorded. The arphids in my student ID broadcast my identity to
sensors in the hallway. It was like being in jail.

"Close the door, Marcus," Mr Benson said. He turned his screen around
so that I could see the video feed from the social studies classroom.
He'd been watching.

"What do you have to say for yourself?"

"That wasn't teaching, it was *propaganda*. She told us that the
Constitution didn't matter!"

"No, she said it wasn't religious doctrine. And you attacked her like
some kind of fundamentalist, proving her point. Marcus, you of all
people should understand that everything changed when the bridge was
bombed. Your friend Darryl --"

"Don't you say a goddamned word about him," I said, the anger bubbling
over. "You're not fit to talk about him. Yeah, I understand that
everything's different now. We used to be a free country. Now we're
not."

"Marcus, do you know what 'zero-tolerance' means?"

I backed down. He could expel me for "threatening behavior." It was
supposed to be used against gang kids who tried to intimidate their
teachers. But of course he wouldn't have any compunctions about using
it on me.

"Yes," I said. "I know what it means."

"I think you owe me an apology," he said.

I looked at him. He was barely suppressing his sadistic smile. A part
of me wanted to grovel. It wanted to beg for his forgiveness for all my
shame. I tamped that part down and decided that I would rather get
kicked out than apologize.

"Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from
the consent of the governed, that whenever any form of government
becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to
alter or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its
foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form,
as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and
happiness." I remembered it word for word.

He shook his head. "Remembering things isn't the same as understanding
them, sonny." He bent over his computer and made some clicks. His
printer purred. He handed me a sheet of warm Board letterhead that said
I'd been suspended for two weeks.

"I'll email your parents now. If you are still on school property in
thirty minutes, you'll be arrested for trespassing."

I looked at him.

"You don't want to declare war on me in my own school," he said. "You
can't win that war. GO!"

I left.

&&&

Chapter 14

[[This chapter is dedicated to the incomparable Mysterious Galaxy in
San Diego, California. The Mysterious Galaxy folks have had me in to
sign books every time I've been in San Diego for a conference or to
teach (the Clarion Writers' Workshop is based at UC San Diego in nearby
La Jolla, CA), and every time I show up, they pack the house. This is a
store with a loyal following of die-hard fans who know that they'll
always be able to get great recommendations and great ideas at the
store. In summer 2007, I took my writing class from Clarion down to the
store for the midnight launch of the final Harry Potter book and I've
never seen such a rollicking, awesomely fun party at a store.]]

[[Mysterious Galaxy
http://mysteriousgalaxy.booksense.com/NASApp/store/Product?s=
showproduct&isbn=9780765319852 7051 Clairemont Mesa Blvd., Suite #302
San Diego, CA  USA 92111 +1 858 268 4747]]

The Xnet wasn't much fun in the middle of the school-day, when all the
people who used it were in school. I had the piece of paper folded in
the back pocket of my jeans, and I threw it on the kitchen table when I
got home. I sat down in the living room and switched on the TV. I never
watched it, but I knew that my parents did. The TV and the radio and
the newspapers were where they got all their ideas about the world.

The news was terrible. There were so many reasons to be scared.
American soldiers were dying all over the world. Not just soldiers,
either. National guardsmen, who thought they were signing up to help
rescue people from hurricanes, stationed overseas for years and years
of a long and endless war.

I flipped around the 24-hour news networks, one after another, a parade
of officials telling us why we should be scared. A parade of photos of
bombs going off around the world.

I kept flipping and found myself looking at a familiar face. It was the
guy who had come into the truck and spoken to Severe-Haircut woman when
I was chained up in the back. Wearing a military uniform. The caption
identified him as Major General Graeme Sutherland, Regional Commander,
DHS.

"I hold in my hands actual literature on offer at the so-called concert
in Dolores Park last weekend." He held up a stack of pamphlets. There'd
been lots of pamphleteers there, I remembered. Wherever you got a group
of people in San Francisco, you got pamphlets.

"I want you to look at these for a moment. Let me read you their
titles. WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE GOVERNED: A CITIZEN'S GUIDE TO
OVERTHROWING THE STATE. Here's one, DID THE SEPTEMBER 11TH BOMBINGS
REALLY HAPPEN? And another, HOW TO USE THEIR SECURITY AGAINST THEM.
This literature shows us the true purpose of the illegal gathering on
Saturday night. This wasn't merely an unsafe gathering of thousands of
people without proper precaution, or even toilets. It was a recruiting
rally for the enemy. It was an attempt to corrupt children into
embracing the idea that America shouldn't protect herself.

"Take this slogan, DON'T TRUST ANYONE OVER 25. What better way to
ensure that no considered, balanced, adult discussion is ever injected
into your pro-terrorist message than to exclude adults, limiting your
group to impressionable young people?

"When police came on the scene, they found a recruitment rally for
America's enemies in progress. The gathering had already disrupted the
nights of hundreds of residents in the area, none of whom had been
consulted in the planning of this all night rave party.

"They ordered these people to disperse -- that much is visible on all
the video -- and when the revelers turned to attack them, egged on by
the musicians on stage, the police subdued them using non-lethal crowd
control techniques.

"The arrestees were ring-leaders and provocateurs who had led the
thousands of impressionistic young people there to charge the police
lines. 827 of them were taken into custody. Many of these people had
prior offenses. More than 100 of them had outstanding warrants. They
are still in custody.

"Ladies and gentlemen, America is fighting a war on many fronts, but
nowhere is she in more grave danger than she is here, at home. Whether
we are being attacked by terrorists or those who sympathize with them."

A reporter held up a hand and said, "General Sutherland, surely you're
not saying that these children were terrorist sympathizers for
attending a party in a park?"

"Of course not. But when young people are brought under the influence
of our country's enemies, it's easy for them to end up over their
heads. Terrorists would love to recruit a fifth column to fight the war
on the home front for them. If these were my children, I'd be gravely
concerned."

Another reporter chimed in. "Surely this is just an open air concert,
General? They were hardly drilling with rifles."

The General produced a stack of photos and began to hold them up.
"These are pictures that officers took with infra-red cameras before
moving in." He held them next to his face and paged through them one at
a time. They showed people dancing really rough, some people getting
crushed or stepped on. Then they moved into sex stuff by the trees, a
girl with three guys, two guys necking together. "There were children
as young as ten years old at this event. A deadly cocktail of drugs,
propaganda and music resulted in dozens of injuries. It's a wonder
there weren't any deaths."

I switched the TV off. They made it look like it had been a riot. If my
parents thought I'd been there, they'd have strapped me to my bed for a
month and only let me out afterward wearing a tracking collar.

Speaking of which, they were going to be *pissed* when they found out
I'd been suspended.



They didn't take it well. Dad wanted to ground me, but Mom and I talked
him out of it.

"You know that vice-principal has had it in for Marcus for years," Mom
said. "The last time we met him you cursed him for an hour afterward. I
think the word 'asshole' was mentioned repeatedly."

Dad shook his head. "Disrupting a class to argue against the Department
of Homeland Security --"

"It's a social studies class, Dad," I said. I was beyond caring
anymore, but I felt like if Mom was going to stick up for me, I should
help her out. "We were talking about the DHS. Isn't debate supposed to
be healthy?"

"Look, son," he said. He'd taking to calling me "son" a lot. It made me
feel like he'd stopped thinking of me as a person and switched to
thinking of me as a kind of half-formed larva that needed to be guided
out of adolescence. I hated it. "You're going to have to learn to live
with the fact that we live in a different world today. You have every
right to speak your mind of course, but you have to be prepared for the
consequences of doing so. You have to face the fact that there are
people who are hurting, who aren't going to want to argue the finer
points of Constitutional law when their lives are at stake. We're in a
lifeboat now, and once you're in the lifeboat, no one wants to hear
about how mean the captain is being."

I barely restrained myself from rolling my eyes.

"I've been assigned two weeks of independent study, writing one paper
for each of my subjects, using the city for my background -- a history
paper, a social studies paper, an English paper, a physics paper. It
beats sitting around at home watching television."

Dad looked hard at me, like he suspected I was up to something, then
nodded. I said goodnight to them and went up to my room. I fired up my
Xbox and opened a word-processor and started to brainstorm ideas for my
papers. Why not? It really was better than sitting around at home.



I ended up IMing with Ange for quite a while that night. She was
sympathetic about everything and told me she'd help me with my papers
if I wanted to meet her after school the next night. I knew where her
school was -- she went to the same school as Van -- and it was all the
way over in the East Bay, where I hadn't visited since the bombs went.

I was really excited at the prospect of seeing her again. Every night
since the party, I'd gone to bed thinking of two things: the sight of
the crowd charging the police lines and the feeling of the side of her
breast under her shirt as we leaned against the pillar. She was
amazing. I'd never been with a girl as...aggressive as her before. It
had always been me putting the moves on and them pushing me away. I got
the feeling that Ange was as much of a horn-dog as I was. It was a
tantalizing notion.

I slept soundly that night, with exciting dreams of me and Ange and
what we might do if we found ourselves in a secluded spot somewhere.

The next day, I set out to work on my papers. San Francisco is a good
place to write about. History? Sure, it's there, from the Gold Rush to
the WWII shipyards, the Japanese internment camps, the invention of the
PC. Physics? The Exploratorium has the coolest exhibits of any museum
I've ever been to. I took a perverse satisfaction in the exhibits on
soil liquefaction during big quakes. English? Jack London, Beat Poets,
science fiction writers like Pat Murphy and Rudy Rucker. Social
studies? The Free Speech Movement, Cesar Chavez, gay rights, feminism,
anti-war movement...

I've always loved just learning stuff for its own sake. Just to be
smarter about the world around me. I could do that just by walking
around the city. I decided I'd do an English paper about the Beats
first. City Lights books had a great library in an upstairs room where
Alan Ginsberg and his buddies had created their radical druggy poetry.
The one we'd read in English class was *Howl* and I would never forget
the opening lines, they gave me shivers down my back:

I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving
hysterical naked,

dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an
angry fix,

angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the
starry dynamo in the machinery of night...

I liked the way he ran those words all together, "starving hysterical
naked." I knew how that felt. And "best minds of my generation" made me
think hard too. It made me remember the park and the police and the gas
falling. They busted Ginsberg for obscenity over Howl -- all about a
line about gay sex that would hardly have caused us to blink an eye
today. It made me happy somehow, knowing that we'd made some progress.
That things had been even more restrictive than this before.

I lost myself in the library, reading these beautiful old editions of
the books. I got lost in Jack Kerouac's *On the Road*, a novel I'd been
meaning to read for a long time, and a clerk who came up to check on me
nodded approvingly and found me a cheap edition that he sold me for six
bucks.

I walked into Chinatown and had dim sum buns and noodles with hot-sauce
that I had previously considered to be pretty hot, but which would
never seem anything like hot ever again, not now that I'd had an Ange
special.

As the day wore on toward the afternoon, I got on the BART and switched
to a San Mateo bridge shuttle bus to bring me around to the East Bay. I
read my copy of *On the Road* and dug the scenery whizzing past. *On
the Road* is a semi-autobiographical novel about Jack Kerouac, a
druggy, hard-drinking writer who goes hitchhiking around America,
working crummy jobs, howling through the streets at night, meeting
people and parting ways. Hipsters, sad-faced hobos, con-men, muggers,
scumbags and angels. There's not really a plot -- Kerouac supposedly
wrote it in three weeks on a long roll of paper, stoned out of his mind
-- only a bunch of amazing things, one thing happening after another.
He makes friends with self-destructing people like Dean Moriarty, who
get him involved in weird schemes that never really work out, but still
it works out, if you know what I mean.

There was a rhythm to the words, it was luscious, I could hear it being
read aloud in my head. It made me want to lie down in the bed of a
pickup truck and wake up in a dusty little town somewhere in the
central valley on the way to LA, one of those places with a gas station
and a diner, and just walk out into the fields and meet people and see
stuff and do stuff.

It was a long bus ride and I must have dozed off a little -- staying up
late IMing with Ange was hard on my sleep-schedule, since Mom still
expected me down for breakfast. I woke up and changed buses and before
long, I was at Ange's school.

She came bounding out of the gates in her uniform -- I'd never seen her
in it before, it was kind of cute in a weird way, and reminded me of
Van in her uniform. She gave me a long hug and a hard kiss on the
cheek.

"Hello you!" she said.

"Hiya!"

"Whatcha reading?"

I'd been waiting for this. I'd marked the passage with a finger.
"Listen: 'They danced down the streets like dingledodies, and I
shambled after as I've been doing all my life after people who interest
me, because the only people for me are the mad ones, the ones who are
mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous of everything at
the same time, the ones that never yawn or say a commonplace thing, but
burn, burn, burn like fabulous yellow roman candles exploding like
spiders across the stars and in the middle you see the blue centerlight
pop and everybody goes "Awww!"'"

She took the book and read the passage again for herself. "Wow,
dingledodies! I love it! Is it all like this?"

I told her about the parts I'd read, walking slowly down the sidewalk
back toward the bus-stop. Once we turned the corner, she put her arm
around my waist and I slung mine around her shoulder. Walking down the
street with a girl -- my girlfriend? Sure, why not? -- talking about
this cool book. It was heaven. Made me forget my troubles for a little
while.

"Marcus?"

I turned around. It was Van. In my subconscious I'd expected this. I
knew because my conscious mind wasn't remotely surprised. It wasn't a
big school, and they all got out at the same time. I hadn't spoken to
Van in weeks, and those weeks felt like months. We used to talk every
day.

"Hey, Van," I said. I suppressed the urge to take my arm off of Ange's
shoulders. Van seemed surprised, but not angry, more ashen, shaken. She
looked closely at the two of us.

"Angela?"

"Hey, Vanessa," Ange said.

"What are you doing here?"

"I came out to get Ange," I said, trying to keep my tone neutral. I was
suddenly embarrassed to be seen with another girl.

"Oh," Van said. "Well, it was nice to see you."

"Nice to see you too, Vanessa," Ange said, swinging me around, marching
me back toward the bus-stop.

"You know her?" Ange said.

"Yeah, since forever."

"Was she your girlfriend?"

"What? No! No way! We were just friends."

"You *were* friends?"

I felt like Van was walking right behind us, listening in, though at
the pace we were walking, she would have to be jogging to keep up. I
resisted the temptation to look over my shoulder for as long as
possible, then I did. There were lots of girls from the school behind
us, but no Van.

"She was with me and Jose-Luis and Darryl when we were arrested. We
used to ARG together. The four of us, we were kind of best friends."

"And what happened?"

I dropped my voice. "She didn't like the Xnet," I said. "She thought we
would get into trouble. That I'd get other people into trouble."

"And that's why you stopped being friends?"

"We just drifted apart."

We walked a few steps. "You weren't, you know, boyfriend/girlfriend
friends?"

"No!" I said. My face was hot. I felt like I sounded like I was lying,
even though I was telling the truth.

Ange jerked us to a halt and studied my face.

"Were you?"

"No! Seriously! Just friends. Darryl and her -- well, not quite, but
Darryl was so into her. There was no way --"

"But if Darryl hadn't been into her, you would have, huh?"

"No, Ange, no. Please, just believe me and let it go. Vanessa was a
good friend and we're not anymore, and that upsets me, but I was never
into her that way, all right?

She slumped a little. "OK, OK. I'm sorry. I don't really get along with
her is all. We've never gotten along in all the years we've known each
other."

Oh ho, I thought. This would be how it came to be that Jolu knew her
for so long and I never met her; she had some kind of thing with Van
and he didn't want to bring her around.

She gave me a long hug and we kissed, and a bunch of girls passed us
going *woooo* and we straightened up and headed for the bus-stop. Ahead
of us walked Van, who must have gone past while we were kissing. I felt
like a complete jerk.

Of course, she was at the stop and on the bus and we didn't say a word
to each other, and I tried to make conversation with Ange all the way,
but it was awkward.

The plan was to stop for a coffee and head to Ange's place to hang out
and "study," i.e. take turns on her Xbox looking at the Xnet. Ange's
mom got home late on Tuesdays, which was her night for yoga class and
dinner with her girls, and Ange's sister was going out with her
boyfriend, so we'd have the place to ourselves. I'd been having pervy
thoughts about it ever since we'd made the plan.

We got to her place and went straight to her room and shut the door.
Her room was kind of a disaster, covered with layers of clothes and
notebooks and parts of PCs that would dig into your stocking feet like
caltrops. Her desk was worse than the floor, piled high with books and
comics, so we ended up sitting on her bed, which was OK by me.

The awkwardness from seeing Van had gone away somewhat and we got her
Xbox up and running. It was in the center of a nest of wires, some
going to a wireless antenna she'd hacked into it and stuck to the
window so she could tune in the neighbors' WiFi. Some went to a couple
of old laptop screens she'd turned into standalone monitors, balanced
on stands and bristling with exposed electronics. The screens were on
both bedside tables, which was an excellent setup for watching movies
or IMing from bed -- she could turn the monitors sidewise and lie on
her side and they'd be right-side-up, no matter which side she lay on.

We both knew what we were really there for, sitting side by side
propped against the bedside table. I was trembling a little and
super-conscious of the warmth of her leg and shoulder against mine, but
I needed to go through the motions of logging into Xnet and seeing what
email I'd gotten and so on.

There was an email from a kid who liked to send in funny phone-cam
videos of the DHS being really crazy -- the last one had been of them
disassembling a baby's stroller after a bomb-sniffing dog had shown an
interest in it, taking it apart with screwdrivers right on the street
in the Marina while all these rich people walked past, staring at them
and marveling at how weird it was.

I'd linked to the video and it had been downloaded like crazy. He'd
hosted it on the Internet Archive's Alexandria mirror in Egypt, where
they'd host anything for free so long as you'd put it under the
Creative Commons license, which let anyone remix it and share it. The
US archive -- which was down in the Presidio, only a few minutes away
-- had been forced to take down all those videos in the name of
national security, but the Alexandria archive had split away into its
own organization and was hosting anything that embarrassed the USA.

This kid -- his handle was Kameraspie -- had sent me an even better
video this time around. It was at the doorway to City Hall in Civic
Center, a huge wedding cake of a building covered with statues in
little archways and gilt leaves and trim. The DHS had a secure
perimeter around the building, and Kameraspie's video showed a great
shot of their checkpoint as a guy in an officer's uniform approached
and showed his ID and put his briefcase on the X-ray belt.

It was all OK until one of the DHS people saw something he didn't like
on the X-ray. He questioned the General, who rolled his eyes and said
something inaudible (the video had been shot from across the street,
apparently with a homemade concealed zoom lens, so the audio was mostly
of people walking past and traffic noises).

The General and the DHS guys got into an argument, and the longer they
argued, the more DHS guys gathered around them. Finally, the General
shook his head angrily and waved his finger at the DHS guy's chest and
picked up his briefcase and started to walk away. The DHS guys shouted
at him, but he didn't slow. His body language really said, "I am
totally, utterly pissed."

Then it happened. The DHS guys ran after the general. Kameraspie slowed
the video down here, so we could see, in frame-by-frame slo-mo, the
general half-turning, his face all like, "No freaking way are you about
to tackle me," then changing to horror as three of the giant DHS guards
slammed into him, knocking him sideways, then catching him at the
middle, like a career-ending football tackle. The general -- middle
aged, steely grey hair, lined and dignified face -- went down like a
sack of potatoes and bounced twice, his face slamming off the sidewalk
and blood starting out of his nose.

The DHS hog-tied the general, strapping him at ankles and wrists. The
general was shouting now, really shouting, his face purpling under the
blood streaming from his nose. Legs swished by in the tight zoom.
Passing pedestrians looked at this guy in his uniform, getting tied up,
and you could see from his face that this was the worst part, this was
the ritual humiliation, the removal of dignity. The clip ended.

"Oh my dear sweet Buddha," I said looking at the screen as it faded to
black, starting the video again. I nudged Ange and showed her the clip.
She watched wordless, jaw hanging down to her chest.

"Post that," she said. "Post that post that post that post that!"

I posted it. I could barely type as I wrote it up, describing what I'd
seen, adding a note to see if anyone could identify the military man in
the video, if anyone knew anything about this.

I hit publish.

We watched the video. We watched it again.

My email pinged.

> I totally recognize that dude -- you can find his bio on Wikipedia.
> He's General Claude Geist. He commanded the joint UN peacekeeping
> mission in Haiti.

I checked the bio. There was a picture of the general at a press
conference, and notes about his role in the difficult Haiti mission. It
was clearly the same guy.

I updated the post.

Theoretically, this was Ange's and my chance to make out, but that
wasn't what we ended up doing. We crawled the Xnet blogs, looking for
more accounts of the DHS searching people, tackling people, invading
them. This was a familiar task, the same thing I'd done with all the
footage and accounts from the riots in the park. I started a new
category on my blog for this, AbusesOfAuthority, and filed them away.
Ange kept coming up with new search terms for me to try and by the time
her mom got home, my new category had seventy posts, headlined by
General Geist's City Hall takedown.



I worked on my Beat paper all the next day at home, reading the Kerouac
and surfing the Xnet. I was planning on meeting Ange at school, but I
totally wimped out at the thought of seeing Van again, so I texted her
an excuse about working on the paper.

There were all kinds of great suggestions for AbusesOfAuthority coming
in; hundreds of little and big ones, pictures and audio. The meme was
spreading.

It spread. The next morning there were even more. Someone started a new
blog called AbusesOfAuthority that collected hundreds more. The pile
grew. We competed to find the juiciest stories, the craziest pictures.

The deal with my parents was that I'd eat breakfast with them every
morning and talk about the projects I was doing. They liked that I was
reading Kerouac. It had been a favorite book of both of theirs and it
turned out there was already a copy on the bookcase in my parents'
room. My dad brought it down and I flipped through it. There were
passages marked up with pen, dog-eared pages, notes in the margin. My
dad had really loved this book.

It made me remember a better time, when my Dad and I had been able to
talk for five minutes without shouting at each other about terrorism,
and we had a great breakfast talking about the way that the novel was
plotted, all the crazy adventures.

But the next morning at breakfast they were both glued to the radio.

"Abuses of Authority -- it's the latest craze on San Francisco's
notorious Xnet, and it's captured the world's attention. Called A-oh-A,
the movement is composed of 'Little Brothers' who watch back against
the Department of Homeland Security's anti-terrorism measures,
documenting the failures and excesses. The rallying cry is a popular
viral video clip of a General Claude Geist, a retired three-star
general, being tackled by DHS officers on the sidewalk in front of City
Hall. Geist hasn't made a statement on the incident, but commentary
from young people who are upset with their own treatment has been fast
and furious.

"Most notable has been the global attention the movement has received.
Stills from the Geist video have appeared on the front pages of
newspapers in Korea, Great Britain, Germany, Egypt and Japan, and
broadcasters around the world have aired the clip on prime-time news.
The issue came to a head last night, when the British Broadcasting
Corporation's National News Evening program ran a special report on the
fact that no American broadcaster or news agency has covered this
story. Commenters on the BBC's website noted that BBC America's version
of the news did not carry the report."

They brought on a couple of interviews: British media watchdogs, a
Swedish Pirate Party kid who made jeering remarks about America's
corrupt press, a retired American newscaster living in Tokyo, then they
aired a short clip from Al-Jazeera, comparing the American press record
and the record of the national news-media in Syria.

I felt like my parents were staring at me, that they knew what I was
doing. But when I cleared away my dishes, I saw that they were looking
at each other.

Dad was holding his coffee cup so hard his hands were shaking. Mom was
looking at him.

"They're trying to discredit us," Dad said finally. "They're trying to
sabotage the efforts to keep us safe."

I opened my mouth, but my mom caught my eye and shook her head. Instead
I went up to my room and worked on my Kerouac paper. Once I'd heard the
door slam twice, I fired up my Xbox and got online.

> Hello M1k3y. This is Colin Brown. I'm a producer with the Canadian
> Broadcasting Corporation's news programme The National. We're doing a
> story on Xnet and have sent a reporter to San Francisco to cover it
> from there. Would you be interested in doing an interview to discuss
> your group and its actions?

I stared at the screen. Jesus. They wanted to *interview* me about "my
group"?

> Um thanks no. I'm all about privacy. And it's not "my group." But
> thanks for doing the story!

A minute later, another email.

> We can mask you and ensure your anonymity. You know that the
> Department of Homeland Security will be happy to provide their own
> spokesperson. I'm interested in getting your side.

I filed the email. He was right, but I'd be crazy to do this. For all I
knew, he *was* the DHS.

I picked up more Kerouac. Another email came in. Same request,
different news-agency: KQED wanted to meet me and record a radio
interview. A station in Brazil. The Australian Broadcasting
Corporation. Deutsche Welle. All day, the press requests came in. All
day, I politely turned them down.

I didn't get much Kerouac read that day.



"Hold a press-conference," is what Ange said, as we sat in the cafe
near her place that evening. I wasn't keen on going out to her school
anymore, getting stuck on a bus with Van again.

"What? Are you crazy?"

"Do it in Clockwork Plunder. Just pick a trading post where there's no
PvP allowed and name a time. You can login from here."

PvP is player-versus-player combat. Parts of Clockwork Plunder were
neutral ground, which meant that we could theoretically bring in a ton
of noob reporters without worrying about gamers killing them in the
middle of the press-conference.

"I don't know anything about press conferences."

"Oh, just google it. I'm sure someone's written an article on holding a
successful one. I mean, if the President can manage it, I'm sure you
can. He looks like he can barely tie his shoes without help."

We ordered more coffee.

"You are a very smart woman," I said.

"And I'm beautiful," she said.

"That too," I said.

 &&&

Chapter 15

[[This chapter is dedicated to Chapters/Indigo, the national Canadian
megachain. I was working at Bakka, the independent science fiction
bookstore, when Chapters opened its first store in Toronto and I knew
that something big was going on right away, because two of our
smartest, best-informed customers stopped in to tell me that they'd
been hired to run the science fiction section. From the start, Chapters
raised the bar on what a big corporate bookstore could be, extending
its hours, adding a friendly cafe and lots of seating, installing
in-store self-service terminals and stocking the most amazing variety
of titles.]]

[[Chapters/Indigo:
http://www.chapters.indigo.ca/books/Little-Brother-Cory-Doctorow/
9780765319852-item.html]]

I blogged the press-
